Neurologic Consultation Transcribed Medical Transcription Example Report

DATE OF CONSULTATION: MM/DD/YYYY
REFERRING PHYSICIAN: Jane Doe, MD
CONSULTANT: John Doe, MD
REASON FOR CONSULTATION/HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a  (XX)-year-old right-handed male with history of hypertension, previous CVA,  residual spastic left hemiplegia, seizures, alcohol abuse in the past, coronary  artery disease status post coronary artery bypass graft, and most recent  possible brainstem cerebrovascular accident about 8 months ago. He was admitted  to the hospital with confusion and was wandering around. Reportedly, the  patient was found wandering around on the road, in his car, driving  erratically. The patient has no clear recollection of events. He was brought  to the emergency room and was completely disoriented. No reports of any  complete loss of consciousness or any witnessed tonic-clonic seizure activity.  The patient states that he was taking his Dilantin, but he does not remember if  he had any seizures. He has no idea of how he got to the hospital. At this  time, the patient denies any new focal neurological symptoms. CT of the head  without contrast from the emergency room was reported as negative for any acute  lesions.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Essentially as stated above. He also had  abdominal aortic aneurysm repair and left leg femoropopliteal bypass.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Neurontin 300 mg t.i.d., Plavix 75 mg  once a day, Lanoxin, K-Dur, folic acid 1 mg once a day, vitamin B6 50 mg a day,  TriCor 160 mg a day, multivitamins, Dilantin 250 mg a.m. and 300 mg nightly,  Seroquel 25 mg nightly, Prozac 10 mg daily, Protonix 40 mg once a day, and  Ativan 1 mg t.i.d.
ALLERGIES: HE HAS NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES.
SOCIAL HISTORY: He smokes 3 packs a day. He had a long history  of alcohol abuse but claims that he quit.
FAMILY HISTORY: Noncontributory.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: General: The patient is an averagely  built male, who is not in acute distress. Vital Signs: Stable, as noted on the  chart. HEENT: Examination unremarkable. Neck: Supple. No carotid bruits.  Heart: S1 and S2 are normal. No murmur, gallop, or rub. Lungs: Clear.  Neurologic: He is alert. He knows he is in the hospital. He has no  recollection of events from yesterday, clearly. He follows commands  appropriately. His speech is dysarthric, which is unchanged from his previous  exams. Pupils are 3 mm, round, reactive to light and accommodation. No visual  field defects. Extraocular movements are full and no nystagmus. Mild left  facial weakness of central type is still seen, residual from previous stroke.  Auditory canals are intact. He appears to be swallowing fairly well. Motor  examination reveals spastic left hemiparesis. Strength is 0/5 in the left upper  extremity and 3 to 4/5, left lower extremity, which is unchanged from previous  one, 5/5 on the right side. Generalized hyporeflexia. Plantar response is  downgoing on the right, upgoing on the left.
LABORATORY DATA: Laboratories on admission; blood gases show pH  7.40, PCO2 41.6, PO2 62.2. O2 saturation 91.9. Urine drug screening came back  positive for benzodiazepines and cannabinoids. CK, myoglobin was elevated.  Troponin was normal. CBC shows WBC 6900, H and H 12.4 and 39. Platelets normal  at 262,000. Chemistry profile on admission shows sodium 144. Rest of the  electrolytes are normal. BUN, creatinine, and blood sugar were normal. Liver  profile was unremarkable. Dilantin level on admission was 4.3.
CT head without contrast, no acute focal lesions.
IMPRESSION:
1. Altered mental status, confusion, could be  metabolic encephalopathy, rule out sepsis versus seizure, in postictal  state.2. Old brainstem cerebrovascular accident and also spastic left  hemiparesis, nonplegic, residual from previous stoke.3. Seizure disorder  with subtherapeutic Dilantin level.4. History of alcohol abuse in the past  but sober now.5. Multiple medical problems including cardiac and peripheral  vascular disease.
RECOMMENDATIONS: We will give extra Dilantin bolus of 500 mg  intravenous piggyback today and check the level in the morning. He denies doing  any drugs. However, his urine drug screen tested positive for marijuana.  Protonix sometimes gives false-positive results for marijuana.
Thank you, Dr. Doe, for the consult. We will follow the patient  with you.