Left Hip Hemiarthroplasty Medical Transcription Operative Sample Report

OPERATION IN DETAIL: The patient was brought to the operating  room and laid supine on the OR table. After general anesthesia was induced, the  patient was turned to the left lateral decubitus position. The patient was on a  bean bag. Next, the left lower extremity was prepped and draped in the usual  sterile fashion. Approximately, a 15 cm incision was made directly overlying the  greater trochanter. A direct lateral approach to the hip joint was performed.  The gluteus medius and minimus were elevated off the greater trochanter in  separate layers. The capsule was opened and retractors were positioned. The  femoral head was then removed using a corkscrew. Next, the femur was then  prepared for the implant. The canal finder was used followed by the lateralizing  reamer. Then, broaching was initiated and the size 14 broach was determined to  be the appropriate size. Next, trials were performed for the femoral head size  and a size 52 hemiarthroplasty head was chosen. Next, a trial reduction was  performed and excellent range of motion and stability was noted with a 52 head  and the standard femoral neck. Next, the broach was removed and the canal was  then prepared for cementing. A cement restrictor was placed. The canal was then  irrigated with pulsatile lavage. Next, cement was injected in retrograde fashion  into the femoral canal. Next, the implant was positioned in neutral into the  medullary canal. Next, a standard femoral neck size with a 52 head was then  positioned and the hip was reduced without any difficulty. This was done after  the cement had hardened. Once the hip was reduced, excellent range of motion and  stability were noted. Next, the joint was thoroughly irrigated with normal  saline. Next, the gluteus medius and minimus were reattached to the greater  trochanter in their respective positions. The iliotibial band was closed using  figure-of-eight suture of 0 Vicryl. A Hemovac drain was placed and the  subcutaneous layer was closed with 2-0 Vicryl suture in an inverted fashion.  Staples were used to close the skin. Sterile dressings were applied. The patient  was awoken from anesthesia and was then transferred over to the bed and an  abduction pillow placed. The patient will be sent to the MICU for further  care.
MT Word HelpMedical Transcription SamplesMedical Transcription Word Seeker - Google Custom Search for MTs - Searches just Medical Websites