Insertion of Inflatable Penile Prosthesis Medical Transcription Transcribed Operative Sample Report

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:Organic erectile dysfunction. 
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:Organic erectile dysfunction. 
PROCEDURE PERFORMED: Insertionof inflatable penile prosthesis. 
SURGEON: John Doe, MD
ANESTHESIA: Generalendotracheal. 
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: 65 mL. 
COMPLICATIONS: None. 
DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: Following induction of general anesthesia, thepatient was shaved and skin prepped for 10 minutes with iodine scrub followedby Betadine paint. The patient was draped in a sterile fashion including Udrape and previous dressing between the legs, which were placed in frog-legposition. A sub penoscrotal incision was made with sharp dissection carriedthrough the dartos muscle with Lone Star retractor placed with double rings,large above and small below. The transverse Deaver retractor was positioned atthe base of the penis and the Foley catheter was inserted into the bladder withsome difficulty, requiring downsize to a 16 French catheter. Once the catheterwas in position in the bladder, a hook was placed on the inside of the dorsalaspect of the meatus and the penis drawn cephalad over the transverseretractor. The penoscrotal incision was deepened and hooks were used to retractthe skin superior to inferior and to either side. The corpora cavernosa wasdissected free of surrounding adventitial tissue on the patient's left, and thesoft tissues were then retracted to the patient's right, allowing exposure ofthe contralateral corpora cavernosa.
Once exposure was achieved, stay sutures of 0 PDS suture wereplaced in each corpora x2 and a vertical incision was placed between corporaextending approximately 2-3 cm in length. Metzenbaum scissors was passeddistally and then proximally into the corpora on either side with the points ofthe scissors hugging the internal aspect of the corpora cavernosa, tunicaalbuginea. Next, Hegar dilators were positioned proximal and distal withgradual increase in dilator size to 13. Once dilation was complete, the corporawere irrigated with antibiotic solution consisting of vancomycin andgentamicin. The assembly was prepared on the back table, including the Ambicorinflatable penile prosthesis and pump. The corpora cavernosa were measured at19 cm total with 10 cm distal and 9 cm proximal. We chose a 15 cm prosthesiswith 4 cm extensions and 12 mm caliber. The Furlow insertion device was thenpositioned with a Keith needle and positioned to position the distal end of theprosthesis through the glans penis. This was performed on each side and theproximal prosthesis was then inserted into the proximal corpora cavernosa.
Once the prosthesis was seated, the tubing was cleared ofair and the rubber-shod clamp removed allowing inflation of the prosthesis toassure that there was no kinking or cross-over of the prosthesis. Once we wereassured of this, the prosthesis was then emptied and the tubing re-clampedwhile the stay sutures were tied transversely to close the corpora cavernosa. TheLone Star retractor was removed and a subdartos pocket was identified andcreated with insertion of gauze soaked in 1% lidocaine with epinephrine. A 65 mLreservoir was then cycled with water and emptied. The external ring wastraversed with the index finger of the left hand and a Deaver retractor waspositioned, retracting the external oblique fascia of the external ringcephalad and Metzenbaum scissors then punctured through the transversalisfascia into the retroperitoneal space. A finger created space within theretroperitoneal tissues and the reservoir was positioned in the retropubicspace and filled with 65 mL of saline.
The pump was then positioned in the subdartos pocket and thetubing between the reservoir and the pump was clamped with rubber shods andexcess tubing was cut. The connecting device was then placed and the crimper wasused to secure connection between the reservoir and the pump. The prosthesis wascycled, showing again good evidence of erection without kinking or aneurysm. Thecorpora cavernosa cylinders were left at approximately 70% filled and thesubdartos tissues were closed over the pump, which was secured in theanterior-inferior aspect of the scrotum. The Lone Star retractor was replacedwith retractors extending the transverse penoscrotal incision to either sideand a round Blake drain was placed through a separate stab incision into thesubdartos space adjacent to the tunica vaginalis.
The dartos and skin were closed in one layer withinterrupted 3-0 chromic sutures, and upon completion of skin closure, a fluffgauze dressing with Telfa was placed over the incision and a stretch tapedressing was placed over the scrotum, first vertical and then transverse. TheFoley catheter was taped to the anterior abdominal wall and the Blake drainattached to a vacuum bulb. The patient was then transferred to the recoveryroom in satisfactory condition.
MedicalTranscription Word Seeker - Google Custom Search for MTs - Searches justMedical Websites