Open Reduction and Internal Fixation of Right Calcaneus Operative MT Sample Report

OPERATION IN DETAIL: The patient was brought to the operating  room and laid supine on the operating table. After general anesthesia was  induced, the patient was turned to the lateral decubitus position. All bony  prominences were well padded. A tourniquet was placed high upon the right thigh  and the right lower extremity was prepped and draped in the usual sterile  fashion. Next, an L-shaped incision was made, performing a standard lateral  approach to the calcaneus. Full-thickness skin flaps were raised. Subperiosteal  elevation of the anterior flap was performed using sharp dissection. Care was  taken to protect the peroneal nerves as well as the sural nerve and the peroneus  tertius tendon distally. The calcaneus fracture was exposed. The lateral wall  was removed. Next, a Steinmann pin was placed into the calcaneal tuberosity  through the heel through a separate stab incision. Next, the fracture was opened  using a combination of elevators and Cobbs. Next, the calcaneal tuberosity was  brought into valgus. Preoperative plain films showed a significant fracture  deformity of the hindfoot. This was corrected intraoperatively using the Schanz  pin. Next, attention was turned to performing reduction of the posterior facet.  With direct visualization, the posterior facet was reduced. Two 2.0 K wires were  placed from posterior to anterior, holding the posterior facet reduced. C-arm  fluoroscopy was used to confirm good restoration of the hindfoot alignment,  which was taken out of varus and brought into neutral alignment. The facet was  reduced under direct visualization. It was difficult to reduce the anterior  process of the calcaneus, as any attempt at reduction of this anterior portion  would lead to gapping of the posterior facet. Therefore, we decided to perform  an anatomic reduction of the posterior facet and accept the upward tilt of the  anterior process of the calcaneus. As mentioned, the varus deformity was  corrected intraoperatively. Next, a calcaneal plate from the DePuy set was  selected and fashioned to the lateral aspect of the calcaneus. Two screws were  placed distal into the calcaneal tuberosity and two screws under the facet  joint. Another screw was placed in the calcaneus. C-arm fluoroscopy was used to  confirm good length of all screws. Final reduction was checked under C-arm  fluoroscopy as well and was felt to be acceptable. Next, the wound was  thoroughly irrigated with normal saline. A drain was placed and brought out the  dorsum of the foot. Next, 0 Vicryl suture was used to close the flaps. The skin  was closed using 3-0 nylon suture using a corner stitch fashion throughout the  incision. Sterile dressings were applied. The patient was placed into an AO  splint. The tourniquet was deflated prior to closure and hemostasis was  obtained. The patient was then turned to the supine position and was extubated  in the operating room and taken to the PACU for recovery. There were no  complications.
Medical Transcription Samples
Medical Transcription Word Seeker - Google Custom Search for MTs - Searches just Medical Websites