Dental Surgery Medical Transcription Transcribed Procedure Sample Report

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:Severe dental caries and infection.
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:Severe dental caries and infection. 
PROCEDURE PERFORMED: Dentalrestorations, extractions and impressions. 
SURGEON: John Doe, DMD
ASSISTANT: Jane Doe
DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: The patient was taken to the OR and induced withnitrous oxide oxygen and sevoflurane. An IV was started in the left hand. Thepatient was intubated through the right naris and was maintained on nitrousoxide oxygen and sevoflurane. Sterile drapes were placed in the usual manner.The patient's oropharynx and mouth were irrigated and thoroughly suctioned. Athin moist throat pack was placed.
Teeth #3, 14 and 19 were restored with pit and fissuresealants. Tooth #30 was restored with an OBcomposite restoration. Teeth #A and J were restored with OL compositerestorations. Teeth #K and T were restored with OBcomposite restorations. Teeth #B and L were restored with stainless steel crowncemented with Ketac. Tooth #S was restored with a formocresol pulpotomy and astainless steel crown was cemented with Ketac. Tooth #I was restored with an occlusalcomposite restoration. Teeth #M, Q and R were extracted without difficulty.Gelfoam was placed in the extraction sockets. Two 4-0 gut sutures were placed.Teeth #K and T were fitted with stainless steel bands and impressions weretaken for fabrication of a lingual arch holding appliance. Hemorrhage waseasily controlled. Estimated blood loss was minimal. Throat pack was removed.
The patient was extubated in the operating room and taken tothe recovery room. The patient's condition was good during the recovery period.The prognosis for retention of the remaining dentition is good. The patient isto be discharged with instructions including activity, diet, medications; dietbeing liquid, may proceed with soft diet at dinner if the patient tolerates.The patient is to be seen in my office in one week for postoperative evaluation.More Dental Surgery Sample Reports        MT Word Help
Medical Transcription SamplesMedical Transcription Word Seeker - Google Search for MTs - Search Only Medical Sites