Left Tube Thoracostomy Procedure Transcription Sample Report

DATE OF OPERATION: MM/DD/YYYY
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:
Left persistent pneumothorax.
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:
Left persistent pneumothorax.
OPERATION PERFORMED:
Left tube thoracostomy.
SURGEON: John Doe, MD
ANESTHESIA: Morphine,fentanyl, 1% lidocaine with epinephrine.
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:Minimal.
INDICATIONS FOR PROCEDURE:The patient is a (XX)-year-old female who fell and had an injury to herchest. The patient went to the emergencyroom where a left-sided chest tube was placed for a pneumothorax. The patientwas transferred to this facility. The patient had a persistent pneumothorax,despite the left-sided chest tube. The pneumothorax became larger as seen onchest x-ray. Therefore, the patient was recommended to have a new left chesttube placed. The patient was educated on the risks, benefits and alternatives andagreed to undergo this procedure.
DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE:The patient was in the supine position on her bed. The patient's leftarm was restrained above her head. The dressings from the preexisting chesttube were removed. The chest was then prepped and draped in the usual sterilemanner. Lidocaine 1% was injected several centimeters above the previouslyplaced chest tube on the mid axillary line above the level of the nipple. An incisionwas made with a #11 blade measuring approximately 2 to 3 cm long. Theunderlying tissues were dissected bluntly with a clamp and superiorly down tothe chest wall. More 1% lidocaine was injected into the pleura and theunderlying soft tissues. A Kelly clamp was used to puncture the pleura justabove the rib and this was spread. A finger was inserted into the chest cavityand the lung was palpated. Any adhesions between the lung and the chest wallwere taken down bluntly. Following this, a 36-French chest tube was placed inthe chest cavity. It was then secured in place with a 2-0 silk suture and 3-0nylon U stitch was placed. Sterile dressings were applied. The chest tube wasplaced to suction. A chest x-ray wasordered for confirmation of placement.
MT Word Help  Medical Transcription Samples
Medical Transcription Word Seeker - Search Just Medical Sites - Custom Search for MTs