MammoSite Catheter Placement Procedure Sample Report

DATE OF PROCEDURE: MM/DD/YYYY
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:
Right breast cancer.
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:
Right breast cancer.
PROCEDURE PERFORMED:
Placement of a right breast MammoSite catheter with intraoperative ultrasound.
SURGEON: John Doe, MD
ANESTHESIA: Local.
COMPLICATIONS: None.
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: Minimal.
PATHOLOGY SPECIMENS: None.
DRAINS: None.
DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE: The patient was brought to the operating room and placed in the supine position. The right breast was prepped and draped in the sterile fashion. An ultrasound was used to identify the lumpectomy cavity and the depth of clearance again assessed. The depth to the lumpectomy cavity appeared to be greater than 1 cm in all locations, and the patient was felt to be a good candidate for a MammoSite. Lidocaine 1% with epinephrine was used to make a small incision in the inferior aspect of the breast. Using ultrasound guidance, the tract to the lumpectomy cavity was also anesthetized. A #10 blade was then used to make a small counterincision and then the MammoSite trocar used to carefully advance into the lumpectomy cavity under ultrasound guidance. The lumpectomy cavity was aspirated of its seroma. A 5-6 cm MammoSite balloon was used. This was tested on the back table and the first MammoSite catheter that was opened was found to inflate unevenly and was thus passed off the table to be sent back to the manufacturer. A second MammoSite catheter balloon was found to inflate satisfactorily and this was the one that was used. The trocar was removed and the MammoSite balloon advanced into the lumpectomy cavity. This was then inflated with 70 mL of Isovue with saline mixture. The ultrasound was then used to assess placement. The balloon showed good tissue conformance, as well as good symmetry and good placement. The catheter was then sterilely dressed and labeled with the fill volume. The patient tolerated the procedure well and was transported to the postanesthesia care unit in stable condition. Sponge and needle counts were reported correct at the end of the case.
MT Word Help
     
Medical Transcription Samples
Medical Transcription Word Seeker - Search Just Medical Sites - Custom Search for MTs