Cystoscopy and Left Ureterorenoscopy with Laser Lithotripsy and Stone Extraction/Stent Insertion Transcribed Medical Transcription Sample Report

PROCEDURE IN DETAIL: The patient was brought to the operative  suite. Appropriate monitors were established and preoperative antibiotics were  administered. The patient was prepped and draped in the low dorsal lithotomy  position. Cystourethroscopy was performed and was characterized by an edematous  left orifice and intramural ureter tunnel. There were no foreign bodies in the  bladder. The bladder was otherwise normal. The patient had a Pollack catheter  and Bentson guidewire readied and attempts were made to pass this past the  stone; however, they proved futile and it was necessary to go to a combination  glide and Bentson wire. This was successfully maneuvered past the calculus and  allowed to rest in the pelvis of the kidney. The ureteroscope was then readied,  and using saline as irrigant, was successfully passed into the orifice and the  stone could be seen. Attempts were made to engage the stone with two different  stone baskets; however, they kept collapsing and would not open enough to engage  the stone. Accordingly, it was elected to employ the holmium laser and the laser  fiber was introduced. It was then used to fragment the stone into several  pieces, which were extracted from the ureter using the baskets. Several were  retained for analysis. The guidewire was then backloaded through the cystoscope  and a 6 x 20 double-J stent was readied and passed over the guidewire,  positioned by fluoroscopic imaging as well as, visually, distally in the bladder  and the suture was left on it. The guidewire was removed after satisfactory  positioning of the stent had been achieved. The bladder was then drained and  several more fragments were evacuated with blood clots. The suture was allowed  to exit the urethra and was taped on the patient's thigh and the procedure  terminated. The patient was taken to the recovery room in satisfactory  condition.
MT Word Help
Medical Transcription Samples
Medical Transcription Word Seeker - Google Custom Search for MTs - Searches just Medical Websites