MRI of The Left Hip Medical Transcription Sample Report

MRI OF THE LEFT HIP
DATE OF STUDY: MM/DD/YYYY
REFERRING PHYSICIAN: John Doe, MD
INDICATIONS FOR STUDY: Left hip pain. Evaluated for AVN. Woke up with left hip pain. Hip pain getting worse despite physical therapy.
TECHNIQUE AND FINDINGS: Multiplanar images were obtained without contrast. The left hip  is markedly abnormal compared with that of the right. There is abnormal low  signal involving the left femoral head, neck, and intertrochanteric region on T1  that is high signal on the STIR sequences. This is suggestive of edema in the  proximal left femur.
There is also some mild edema in the superolateral left  acetabulum. There is a prominent left medial joint effusion involving the left  hip. There is marked flattening of the superolateral left femoral head.
The left  hip appears slightly subluxed laterally, as there is a large medial joint  effusion. The acetabulum still appears to cover the femoral head. This may be  due to stage IV AVN, which appears as advanced articular collapse and  osteoarthritis.
There is a subtle lucent line through the femoral head, on the  left, that could be a component of AVN. It possibly could represent a fracture;  however, it is more difficult to see on the T1 weighted images and better seen  on the STIR sequences. It is suggested on the axial images as well.
I
f clinically warranted, a CT may be of value to ensure there is not an incomplete fracture. On the sagittal images, this linear component is less so appreciated as well.The right hip is fairly 
normal in appearance. The femoral head  on the right is well preserved. There is no flattening of the right femoral  head. The right acetabulum is unremarkable. There is no obvious fracture or  dislocation on the right. There is no significant joint effusion on the  right.
IMPRESSION: Left hip is markedly abnormal  compared with that of the right with edema, flattening, and collapse of the  superolateral left femoral head. There is a line traversing the subchondral  surface of the femoral head that may be a component of avascular necrosis.
Alternatively, this may be related to the closed physis or perhaps an incomplete  fracture. Most likely, this probably represents the closed physis. CT may be of  value to ensure that there is not an incomplete fracture in this area. The left  femoral neck is deformed and misshapened and widened compared with that of the  right. This may be due to a longstanding process from a congenital anomaly.
Sequela from perhaps hip dysplasia/dislocation is a possibility as well given  the marked asymmetry in the two hips. There is a prominent medial left joint  effusion. The right hip is unremarkable.
MRA Circle of Willis and Head MRI Sample
MRA Circle of Willis and Head MRI Sample
   
Left Shoulder MRI Sample Report
MRI of the Right Knee Sample             Abdominal MRI Sample Report
MRI of the Right Knee Sampl
e
             
Abdominal MRI Sample Report
Right Elbow MRI Sample Report            MRI Medical Transcription Sample Reports
Right Elbow MRI Sample Repor
t
            
MRI Medical Transcription Sample Reports
Medical Transcription Word Seeker - Google Custom Search for MTs
Medical Transcription Word Seeker - Google Custom Search for MT
s
Email This
BlogThis!
Share to Twitter
Share to Facebook
Share to Pinterest