Exploratory Laparotomy with Colectomy Medical Transcription Sample Report

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:Inflammatory phlegmon in the right lower quadrant. 
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:Inflammatory phlegmon in the right lower quadrant, likely secondary toperforated cecal diverticulitis. 
OPERATION PERFORMED: Exploratorylaparotomy through a right lower quadrant incision with a right colectomy. 
SURGEON: John Doe, MD
ANESTHESIA: General. 
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: 500 mL. 
COMPLICATIONS: Noneapparent. 
DRAINS: Jackson-Prattx2. 
SPECIMENS: Rightcolectomy. 
DESCRIPTION OF OPERATION: After informed consent was obtained from thepatient and after the possible operative risks, complications, and alternativeswere discussed, he was taken to the operating room and placed on the operatingtable in the supine position. Anesthesia was induced. The patient wasintubated. The abdomen was shaved and prepped with Betadine and drapedsterilely. A transverse incision was made in the right lower quadrant. Theincision was deepened with electrocautery. The fascia was entered, the musclefibers were split, the peritoneum was entered, and retractors were placed onthe wound. The cecum was obviously severely inflamed with a large inflammatoryphlegmon. It was impossible to mobilize without extending the incision anddividing the abdominal wall musculature. A self-retaining retractor wasassembled and used to maintain retraction of the abdominal wall for bettervisualization. The inflammatory phlegmon was rather massive and involved theileocolic mesentery and the right paracolic gutter extending into the pelvis.The appendix was located in this but was not clearly the source of this. Therewas a large abscess that was freely draining pus from posteriorly and thisappeared to be adjacent to the cecum and not necessarily arising from theappendix itself.
The etiology was thought to be most likely cecaldiverticulitis. Regardless, a wide resection with right colectomy wasindicated. The terminal ileum was divided with a GIA stapler, including in theresection specimen a small portion of the terminal ileum at the ileocecal valvethat was indurated and inflamed. The mesentery to the ileocecal area wasdivided with LigaSure with good hemostasis. The right colon was mobilized alongthe right paracolic gutter. There was some difficulty with the fixation due tothe phlegmon and mobilizing the hepatic flexure. Ultimately, the transversecolon was divided in its proximal portion, and working backward using LigaSure,it could be divided from its omental attachments, gastrocolic attachments, andits mesentery. When the specimen was entirely free, it was forwarded to pathology.The transverse colon was seen to reach easily to the terminal ileum. Bothsegments of bowel were grossly normal at this area, healthy and viable. Themesenteric defect was approximated with PDS suture. The bowel ends were placedin approximation with PDS suture and a stapled side-to-side functionalend-to-end anastomosis was accomplished with the GIA stapler. The defectcreated by the stapler and anastomosis was closed in two layers with 3-0 Vicryland interrupted 3-0 PDS Lembert sutures. 
The wound was irrigated and the irrigant suctioned out.Sponge, needle, and instrument counts were correct. Inspection for hemostasisshowed that there was still a small amount of oozing along the right paracolicgutter, particularly at the site of mobilization of the hepatic flexure. Therewas no pulsatile bleeding, just a small amount of oozing. Two 10 flatJackson-Pratt drains were left, the superior most placed along the rightparacolic gutter extending up to the region of the hepatic flexure and thesecond placed in the lower retroperitoneum at the site of abscess. These exitedthrough separate stab incisions and were secured in place at the skin site withsilk sutures. The wound was irrigated and the irrigant suctioned out. Again,sponge, needle, and instrument counts were correct, and the fascia was closedwith a deep layer of running #1 Vicryl and more superficial layer of running #1PDS. The subcuticular tissues were irrigated and skin edges were approximatedwith skin staples. A sterile dressing was applied. The patient was awakened andreturned to recovery in stable condition.Medical Transcription Samples