Sole Therapy Laser Transmyocardial Revascularization Sample

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:
Chronic medically refractory angina.
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:
Chronic medically refractory angina.
PROCEDURE PERFORMED:
Minimally invasive sole therapy laser transmyocardial revascularization.
SURGEON: John Doe, MD
ANESTHESIA: Generalendotracheal.
COMPLICATIONS: None.
DRAINS: One 19 FrenchBlake drain.
DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE:The patient was identified and placed on the operative table in thesupine position. General endotracheal anesthesia was induced. The left chestand groin were prepped and draped in the normal sterile fashion. The patientwas given IV antibiotics prior to start of the case. A standard 2 inch incisionwas made below the left breast and dissection was carried down through thefifth interspace. Once we entered the chest, we amputated the pericardial fatpad and identified the pericardium. We made a window in the pericardium andused stay sutures to make a well around the pericardium. Scarred ends of thelung were scarred down and we pushed this out of the way. Once we had apericardial stay suture in place, we then meticulously took down all theadhesions around the left ventricle, freeing up the left ventricle all the wayover to the great cardiac vein on the inferior wall, anteriorly to the levelaround the apex, anteriorly to the level of the LAD and then laterally out tothe level of the vein graft. We then proceeded to place 35 laser TMR channels,doing 5 at a time and using a 2 to 3 minute rest period in between each set of5 channels. Each channel was placed about 1 cm apart from each other to coverthe entire ischemic area along the left ventricle. We did do most of thechannels in the area of the right coronary distribution and in the LV apex, 35 channels weredone in all. Once this was done, we then checked for bleeding. After severalminutes pressure, there was no evidence of any bleeding. We coated the heartwith Tisseel and loosely closed the pericardium over the top of the heart. Wethen placed a 19 French Blake drain along the pericardium and then we injectedthe wound with 0.25% Marcaine. We then placed a PainBuster pain device withinthe subpleural space along the incision, and we then closed the incision usingone interrupted #2 Vicryl stitch. We then closed the pectoral muscle over thetop of this in one layer using running 0-Vicryl and then subcutaneous tissueand the skin. The wounds were cleaned and dried. Sterile bandages were placed.All needle, sponge and instrument counts were correct at the end of the case.The patient tolerated the procedure well.
Cardiology Operative Samples #1  Cardiology Operative Samples #2
Medical Transcription Word Seeker - Google Search for MTs - Searches just Medical Websites