Open Reduction and Internal Fixation of Left Calcaneal Tuberosity Fracture and Repair of Left Achilles Tendon Transcribed Sample Report

OPERATION IN DETAIL: The patient was brought to the OR and laid  supine on the OR table. After general anesthesia was induced, the patient was  turned over to the prone position. All bony prominences were well padded. A  tourniquet had been placed high up on the left thigh prior to the patient being  turned prone. The left lower extremity was then prepped and draped in the usual  sterile fashion. Esmarch bandage was used to exsanguinate the left lower  extremity and the tourniquet was inflated to 300 mmHg. Next, a 12 cm incision  longitudinally was made just medial to the Achilles tendon. The Achilles tendon  was identified. Next, the fracture through the calcaneal tuberosity was  identified and this area was cleaned of fibrin clots and all bullet fragments  were removed. Next, the patient's foot was placed into plantar flexion. A  transverse incision was made through the heel pad. Two drill holes were passed  from the plantar aspect of the calcaneus up through the fractured surface. Next,  Ti-Cron sutures were passed with a straight needle through these holes. Next, a  Krackow-type suture was performed extending approximately 4 cm up into the  Achilles tendon substance. These sutures were then brought back down and passed  through the drill holes that were made in the calcaneus and brought out through  the plantar aspect of the calcaneus using a straight needle. The foot was placed  into full plantar flexion and suture was tied down tightly. Excellent fixation  of the Achilles tendon into the calcaneus was obtained after final tightening.  Next, there was noted to be a bone fragment with the Achilles tendon attached to  which a screw could be placed for additional fixation. Therefore, a 35 mm  partially threaded cortical screw was placed into the calcaneus fixating this  bone fragment. Next, the wound was thoroughly irrigated with normal saline and  the tourniquet was deflated and hemostasis was obtained. The wound was closed  using a 2-0 Vicryl suture for the subcutaneous layer followed by staples for the  skin. Sterile dressings were applied and the patient was placed into a splint in  plantar flexion. The patient was then awakened from anesthesia and taken to the  PACU for recovery.
MT Word Help
Medical Transcription Samples
Medical Transcription Word Seeker - Google Custom Search for MTs - Searches just Medical Websites