Neuropsychology Consultation Medical Transcription Sample Report

DATE OF CONSULTATION:MM/DD/YYYY
REFERRING PHYSICIAN: John Doe, MD
REASON FOR CONSULTATION:To evaluate the patient's current cognitive and emotional functionfollowing central nervous system compromise.
DIAGNOSIS ON PRESENTATION:Stroke. 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:The patient is a (XX)-year-old gentleman who was transferred from anoutside hospital with right-sided weakness and aphasia. The patient reportedly had a nonhemorrhagicCVA. The patient was also noted to havea right homonymous hemianopsia to confrontation with a left gaze preference andright central facial weakness along with right hemiplegia. The patient also had increased reflexes onthe right compared to the left and aggressive upgoing plantar response. The patient was noted to have a left carotidbruit. The patient also had an elevatedblood pressure prior to onset. Thepatient was evaluated on the acute floor and then transferred to therehabilitation unit for further evaluation and treatment.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:Hypertension, but no significant history of diabetes or cardiologicabnormalities. 
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:As noted above. 
ALLERGIES: NONE NOTED. 
MEDICATIONS UPON ADMISSION:See chart. 
FAMILY MEDICAL HISTORY:Diabetes. 
PAST PSYCHIATRIC HISTORY:Reportedly unremarkable. 
SOCIAL HISTORY: Thepatient lives with his wife of 40 years.They live in an older home with no air conditioning or heat. The patient has a son and daughter who alsolive in that area. Educationally, thepatient completed high school. Occupationally,the patient worked in the (XX). Prior tothis stroke, there was no history of reported disability.
SUBSTANCE ABUSE HISTORY:Positive for remote tobacco history, but negative for alcohol andillegal substance use. 
EXAMINATION RESULTS:The patient was alert and oriented to self, but further evaluation oforientation could not be established at this time secondary to aphasia. Interaction with the examiner was pleasant,but eye contact was limited secondary to the deficits noted above in thehistory. Attention span and processingwas extremely brief. Attention span wasbrief partly because the patient appeared fatigued and was also unable torespond appropriately. Informationprocessing is substantially impaired as well as memory secondary to severelanguage dysfunction, aphasia. Noassessment of apraxia was completed at this time. Please see speech therapy's review. According to the patient's wife, he isnormally a very quiet person with limited expression, but no disability wasnoted. Upon review of comprehension, thepatient was inconsistent for one-step commands and following at approximately 50%for yes or no response type format.Fluency as well as repetition severely impaired. Verbal processing again was severelyimpaired. Further language as well ascognitive testing would be indicated after the patient demonstratesconsiderable improvement from this point forward. Thought process and thought content could notbe fully evaluated at this time. Therewas no history of any deficit in this area.The patient does not appear to be experiencing any overt signs of thingslike hallucinations or delusions. Regardingbehavioral activity, the patient is restless at times and does require safetydevices to be in place. The wifeindicates concern about him falling. Regardingaffect and mood, the patient's affective expressions were very limited. The patient's wife has indicated that he doesget frustrated and aggravated with his deficit profile as well as languageimpairment. A formal assessment cannotbe evaluated at this time secondary to the level of impairment noted. Regarding vegetative features, according tothe patient's wife, he was very restless upon the acute floor, but since beingon rehab, he has been showing increasing abilities. The patient's appetite has been improving,but following at approximately 50% of normal.According to the patient's wife, he has lost weight. Energy level is significantly decreased. He fatigues quickly and naps often. Overall awareness of current deficits cannotbe fully assessed at this time. Thepatient does have some recognition of deficits secondary to becomingfrustrated, but it is difficult to say as to what his current level of insightis. Overall adjustment to therehabilitation unit appears adequate, in that he is beginning to show changesassociated with therapies. Also, some ofthe vegetative features are beginning to improve, which should also help hisoverall adjustment to the rehabilitation process. The patient's wife indicated that overall hehas been cooperative and seems motivated for treatments. She also indicated that he is a person whonormally has significant drive and will provide his best efforts. 
IMPRESSION: At thistime, neuropsychological impression is consistent with the effects of a largemiddle cerebral artery distribution infarct with associated right hemiplegia aswell as language impairment. There wasan issue of visual fields being deficient. This will be further evaluated as thepatient's language skills improve.Overall adjustment appears consistent with level of frustrationsecondary to deficits that would be expected as part of the recovery process. 
Axis I: Cognitivedisorder, not otherwise specified, with associated language impairment as wellas adjustment reaction, not otherwise specified, mild. 
Axis II:Deferred. 
Axis III: See historyabove including a left middle cerebral artery distribution nonhemorrhagicstroke. 
Axis IV: Currentpsychosocial stressors include current level of disability as well as loss ofhome in this past year as well as economic change. 
Axis V: Current globalassessment of functioning equals approximately 35 secondary to severecommunication deficit, and past year would equal approximately 85 to 90. 
RECOMMENDATIONS: Atthis time, further intervention by Neuropsychology. Will be working with the patient's wife foreducational purposes, as well as helping her to understand cognitive andlinguistic deficits following this type of stroke.In addition, the patient will be discussed during neurobehavioral roundsas appropriate, and finally, followup intervention for cognitive as well asadjustment issues will be provided on an as-needed basis providing that thepatient is able to tolerate this form of treatment. Neuropsychological assessment will likely notbe able to be completed during the time of the inpatient rehabilitation staysecondary to language impairment.However, if the patient demonstrates enough comprehension, thenneuropsychological assessment would be attempted. Thank you for this consultation.Neuropsych Testing Sample Report
MT Word Help
Medical Transcription Samples
Medical Transcription Word Seeker - Google Custom Search for MTs - Searches just Medical Websites