Vitrectomy Scleral Laceration Repair Air-Fluid Exchange Sample

DATE OF OPERATION: MM/DD/YYYY
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:
Ruptured globe, left eye; status post ocular penetratingtrauma, left eye; mild cataract, left eye; vitreous hemorrhage, left eye; possibleretinal detachment, left eye.
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:
Ruptured globe, left eye; status post ocular penetratingtrauma, left eye; cataract, left eye; vitreous hemorrhage, left eye; retinaldetachment, left eye; perforating scleral injury, left eye; intraocular foreignbody, left eye.
OPERATION PERFORMED:
A 20-gauge vitrectomy, left eye; removal of intraocularforeign body, left eye; repair of scleral laceration, left eye; removal ofvitreous hemorrhage, left eye; repair of retinal detachment, left eye; air-fluidexchange, left eye; silicone oil vitreous substitute air exchange, left eye; indirectlaser placement, left eye.
SURGEON: John Doe, MD
ANESTHESIA: General.
DESCRIPTION OF OPERATION:The patient was identified in the holding area and dilating drops wereplaced in his left eye. He was brought back to the operating room and placedsupine on the operating room table. General anesthesia was initiated, and aretrobulbar block using only a few mL of 2% lidocaine and 0.75% Marcaine wasgiven to his left eye. No digital pressure was applied following theretrobulbar block in case that there was an additional scleral laceration. Theleft eye was then prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion. Theoperating microscope was brought into position, as well as the 20-23-gaugevitrectomy system. A 360-degree conjunctival peritomy was performed. Each ofthe 4 quadrants were spread using the Stevens scissors. The rectus muscles wereisolated with 2-0 black silk suture ties. The globe was explored and a largescleral laceration under the lateral rectus muscle was identified. The lateralrectus muscle was removed at its insertion and the scleral laceration repairedusing 8-0 nylon interrupted sutures. There was vitreous presentation at thelaceration site. This was removed gently using the Weck-cel technique. Theintraocular foreign body was found at the distal end of the wound. The metallicforeign body was sent to pathology. The lateral rectus muscle was thenresutured to the sclera. The indirect ophthalmoscope was used to inspect theretina and vitreous. View was obscured by the vitreous hemorrhage. Since it wasfelt that there was retinal incarceration within the wound and likely retinaldetachment, the decision was made to perform the vitrectomy. The 23-gaugecannulas were placed. The infusion trocar was verified and the infusionpressure turned on to 20 mmHg. Two additional trocars were placed at the 10 and2 o'clock positions. No light pipe or Microvit were used to enter the eye. Withthe assistance of intravitreal Kenalog for visualization, the central vitreousand vitreous hemorrhages were removed. There was retinal detachment found,which did involve the macula. Fortunately, the scleral laceration only extendedto the temporal edge of the macula and did not involve the fovea. There wasloss of overlying choroid and RPE in the area of the scleral laceration site.Using intraocular diathermy and the Microvit, the retina was removed from thesites of incarceration. Perfluoron was then used to flatten the retina andlaser placed along the edges of the previously incarcerated retina using theindirect ophthalmoscope attachment. A Perfluoron air exchange was performedfollowed by a silicone oil vitreous substitute air exchange. I noted that theoptic nerve appeared healthy. The sclerotomies were closed and the eye leftwatertight at a pressure of approximately 20 mmHg. Then, 0.2 mL of intravitrealKenalog was placed to hopefully prevent formation of proliferativevitreoretinopathy postoperatively. Subconjunctival injections of vancomycin anddexamethasone were given as well. The corneal epithelium was decompensatingtowards the end of the case, but fortunately no corneal scraping was required.The conjunctiva was closed using 8-0 Vicryl suture. A patch and shield andTobraDex ointment were placed over the patient's left eye. The patient will beadmitted for postoperative positioning and will be seen in one day for followup.
Transvitreal Fine Needle Aspiration Biopsy of Choroidal Tumor SampleTrabeculectomy Sample Report
Rectus Recession Operative Sample Report  Entropion Repair Operative Sample Report
Ophthalmology Operative Samples # 1      Ophthalmology Operative Sample Reports #2
Medical Transcription Word Seeker - Google Search for MTs - Searches just Medical Websites