Normal Review of Systems (ROS) Transcription Samples

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:
CONSTITUTIONAL: No fever, chills.
HEENT: Eyes: No visual disturbance, no photophobia. ENT: No otalgia, no difficulty swallowing or speaking.
CARDIOVASCULAR: No chest pain.
RESPIRATORY: No shortness of breath.
GASTROINTESTINAL: Epigastric pain.
GENITOURINARY: No difficulty urinating. No urinary retention or urinary incontinence.
MUSCULOSKELETAL: No joint pain or swelling.
NEUROLOGIC: No paresthesias, anesthesias.
SKIN: No rashes.
PSYCHIATRIC: No hallucinations or delusions.
Review of systems otherwise negative.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: The patient denies any constitutional symptoms. He does wear glasses. He denies any chest pain or respiratory symptoms. He reports occasional loose stools. No other GI symptoms. He denies any GU symptoms, joint pain, swelling, rashes, skin conditions, neurologic conditions or blood disorders.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: At this point, the patient denies sore throat, nosebleed, hearing loss, dysuria, frequency, fever or chills, loss of appetite, cough, wheezing, headaches, dysphagia, fainting, blurred vision, chest pain, palpitations, shortness of breath, edema, pain or swelling of the joints, abdominal pain, diarrhea, constipation, nausea or vomiting, rashes or warmth. However, the patient had some of these symptoms earlier on during the admission as mentioned above.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: The patient has occasional migraines and occasional non-migraine headaches. No dizziness. No chest pain or shortness of breath. The patient has nausea and vomiting with her migraines but otherwise no dysphagia, heartburn, indigestion, weight loss, fever, lower extremity edema or hematuria.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Stable weight. Good appetite. No recent fever. Positive chills today. Occasional indigestion or heartburn. Recent chest discomfort. Recent mild dyspnea. No change in bowel habits. Chronic nocturia and frequency but no change. No dysuria. No stroke or TIA type symptoms.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: As above, otherwise negative. The patient denies any urinary symptoms, any frank chest pain or shortness of breath, dizziness or syncopal episodes. No fevers or chills. The patient’s last bowel movement was yesterday, was normal for her. She denies dark tarry or bloody stools.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: The patient denies fever, chills, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea. He denies any bony deformity, ecchymosis, hematoma to the left wrist, hand or digits. He denies any erythema, crepitus or increased joint warmth to the same. He notes pain with active range of motion of the wrist, predominantly with both flexion and extension, though worse with flexion. He otherwise denies numbness, tingling or paresthesias to the same or muscle weakness. The remainder of his review of systems is otherwise negative.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: The patient denies fever, chills, nausea, vomiting. Does note some diarrhea. She denies any headache. Does note some dizziness. Denies blurred vision. She denies focal neurologic deficits, numbness, tingling or paresthesias to her extremities. Does note some increased fatigue and weakness. She denies any upper respiratory symptoms, neck pain, stiffness, chest congestion, cough, chest pain, shortness of breath, wheezing, diaphoresis or palpitations. She notes abdominal pain, which she localizes to her suprapubic area with associated urinary symptomatology. The remainder of review of systems is otherwise negative.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: The patient denies any fever or chills. She does note nausea, vomiting, diarrhea. She denies any headache, dizziness, blurred vision, focal neurologic deficits, numbness, tingling or paresthesias to her extremities. She does note increased fatigue and weakness. She denies any upper respiratory symptoms, neck pain or stiffness, chest congestion, cough, hemoptysis, hematochezia or hematemesis. She does note some chest pain as described above with associated shortness of breath. She denies any diaphoresis. She does note transient sensation of palpitations. She denies any back pain, urinary symptoms or rash. However, she does note some periumbilical abdominal pain, which she localizes around her colostomy site. She does note some abdominal distention as well, which has been gradually increasing over the past several days. She denies any recent significant weight gain or weight loss, as well as any swelling to her extremities. She denies any heat or cold intolerance. Remainder of the review of systems is reviewed and negative.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: The patient denies any decreased sensation or pain radiating down his legs. The patient denies any problems with bowel or bladder. He denies any diplopia. No unilateral weakness or numbness. No trouble speaking or swallowing. He does have a headache. Some neck discomfort, low back pain, more right sided. His pain is worsened with movement, twisting, turning, bending. The patient denies any other injuries. He did not strike his head. He was wearing a seat belt, which he states broke. Otherwise, review of systems negative.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS:
CONSTITUTIONAL: Denies fever, chills or weight loss.
HEENT: Eyes: Denies visual changes or pain with eye movements. ENT: Denies congestion or sore throat. Significant for complaints listed in the HPI.
CARDIOVASCULAR: No chest pain, palpitations or syncope.
RESPIRATORY: No shortness of breath, cough, congestion, wheezing or sputum production.
GASTROINTESTINAL: No abdominal pain, hematemesis or melena.
GENITOURINARY: No dysuria or polyuria.
MUSCULOSKELETAL: No muscle or joint pain.
NEUROLOGIC: No numbness or tingling in her extremities.
ENDOCRINE: Denies polyuria or polydipsia.
HEMATOLOGIC: Denies any abnormal bleeding or bruising.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: The patient denies any fevers, chills, sweats. HEENT: She denies any headache or photophobia. CARDIOVASCULAR: She has the aforementioned chest wall pain though denies any history of chest pain or coronary artery disease. RESPIRATORY: Again, she denies any cough or sputum production. States that she has no history of COPD or asthma. GASTROINTESTINAL: The patient denies any abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea or constipation. The patient's all other review of systems are negative and per the HPI.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: No sore throat, no earaches, no diplopia, no cough or chest congestion of late. She denies any true abdominal pain now and no pain with eating or nausea, vomiting or diarrhea. She denies any bloody or black stools of late. She denies any dysuria now. No wounds or sores that would not heal. Otherwise, she has some frontal headache but no sinus drainage or other nasal discharge.
ROS Examples
   
ROS Examples 1
   
ROS Examples 2
   
ROS Examples 3
Medical Transcription Word Seeker - Google Search for MTs - Searches just Medical Websites