Direct Laryngoscopy Flexible Bronchoscopy Sample Report

DATE OF OPERATION:
 MM/DD/YYYY
SURGEON:
 John Doe, MD
DESCRIPTION OF OPERATION:
 The patient was brought to the  operating room and placed in supine position on the operating table. General  anesthesia was induced and the patient was ventilated through an already intact  tracheostomy tube.
Anterior commissure laryngoscope was first utilized. The  patient was found to have a large amount of redundant soft tissue but no  discrete mass or lesion in the oropharynx or hypopharynx. The large amount of  soft tissue included lingual tonsillar hypertrophy, a large amount of  postcricoid edema consistent with gastroesophageal reflux disease. True vocal  folds showed a mild to moderate amount of Reinke's edema. There was a small  amount of resolving ecchymosis along the posterior aspect of the right true  vocal fold at the vocal process. No other significant trauma visible to the  larynx.
Next, the bronchoscope was passed through the patient's oral cavity and  through the true vocal folds. The immediate subglottis was visualized along with  the entrance of the tracheostomy tube, which was seen to be well positioned  within the trachea. There was no visible fixed obstruction at this level. At  this point, the #6 extended length Shiley was removed and a #5 uncuffed extended  length Shiley was placed into the already intact tracheotomy. Under  visualization with the bronchoscope, it was seen to extend well into the trachea  with good positioning. The bronchoscope and laryngoscope were then removed.
The  bronchoscope was then placed through the tracheostomy tube and the trachea was  visualized down to the larynx. There seemed to be no tracheomalacia and no  masses or lesions down to the level of the carina. The new tracheostomy tube was  then secured to the patient's neck and the patient was then awakened and taken  to the postanesthesia care unit in stable condition.
Pulmonary Operative Samples   Fiberoptic Bronchoscopy SampleMedical Transcription Word Seeker - Google Search for MTs - Searches just Medical Websites