Ankle Tarsal Tunnel Release Transcription Sample Report

DATE OF OPERATION: MM/DD/YYYY
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:Left ankle tarsal tunnel syndrome.
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:Left ankle tarsal tunnel syndrome.
OPERATION PERFORMED:Left ankle tarsal tunnel release.
SURGEON: John Doe, DPM
ANESTHESIA: Generalanesthesia with local of 20 mL 0.5% Marcaine with epinephrine.
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS:Minimal.
COMPLICATIONS: None.
INJECTABLES: Five mLof 0.5% Marcaine with epinephrine, 1 mL of Decadron.
DESCRIPTION OF OPERATION:Under mild sedation, the patient was brought to the operating room andplaced on the operating table in the supine position. Following generalanesthesia and 1 gram of Kefzol, approximately 20 mL of 0.5% Marcaine withepinephrine was injected about the left ankle. The foot was then scrubbed,prepped and draped in the usual aseptic manner. The left leg was then elevatedand exsanguinated and the left high leg tourniquet was inflated to 300 mmHg.Attentionwas directed to the medial aspect of the left ankle, the tarsal tunnel area,where a 4 cm incision was made along the course, just posterior inferior to theposterior tibial tendon. The incision was then deepened down to flexorretinaculum, which was incised. The compartment of the tibial nerve and tibialartery and venae comitantes were identified. The tibial nerve was identified,noted to have moderate fibrosis and fatty tissue on the tendon, but no signs ofganglion cysts or other foreign body. The scar tissue and fatty tissue wasdebrided from the nerve. The incisions followed inferiorly down to the portapedis, which was opened in order to decompress the nerve. The flexor digitorumlongus tendon was also identified and opened the tendon sheath. No signs ofpathology or synovitis were noted.The incision was then flushed with copiousamounts of saline and Kantrex. The skin was closed with 4-0 Vicryl and 4-0nylon. The incision was then injected with 5 mL of 0.5% Marcaine withepinephrine, 1 mL of Decadron and bandaged with Betadine-soaked Adaptic,Betadine-soaked 4 x 4's, fluffs, Kling, cast padding and short leg splint. Theleft high leg tourniquet was deflated at approximately 20 minutes with prompthyperemic response to the left foot. The patient left the OR for the PACU withvital signs stable. The patient is to remain partial weightbearing withcrutches.
Orthopedic Operative Samples #1      Orthopedic Operative Samples #2
Medical Transcription Word Seeker - Google Search for MTs - Searches just Medical Websites