Physical Exam Medical Transcription Samples / Examples

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
GENERAL: Reveals awell-developed, well-nourished, chronically ill-appearing female in no acutedistress.
VITAL SIGNS: Bloodpressure 110/76, pulse 82 and regular, respirations 18 and unlabored,temperature afebrile.
HEENT: Normocephalic,atraumatic. Conjunctivae pink. Sclerae anicteric. Pupils equal, reactive tolight and accommodation. Extraocular movements intact. Ears, nose, throatclear. Mucous membranes, oropharynx well hydrated. The patient is missingseveral teeth.
NECK: Supple withoutadenopathy, thyromegaly, JVD or carotid bruits.
CHEST: Symmetrical.
LUNGS: Grossly clearto percussion and auscultation with diminished breath sounds at the bases.
HEART: Normal sinus rate, S1, S2, soft S4 without thrills,murmurs.
ABDOMEN: Soft, obese,+3. Bowel sounds present without obvious organomegaly, masses, rebound orguarding. Negative for CVA tenderness.
EXTREMITIES: Leftlower extremity reveals a fifth toe amputation. There is marked edema in theknee distally, including pedal edema. This is approximately 2+. Peripheralpulses of the left lower extremity are markedly diminished. The patient doeshave calf tenderness to palpation. There is no evidence for cyanosis at thistime. Right lower extremity reveals partial amputation of the first three toeson the right. Peripheral pulse is diminished but palpable. Distal pulses arediminished but palpable.
NEUROLOGIC: Grosslyintact. Detailed sensory examination of the lower extremities was notperformed. Ambulation and gait not tested.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:VITAL SIGNS: Temperature 97.4, pulse 102, respirations 18, pulse ox 98% on room air.GENERAL: Alert and oriented x4, no acute respiratory distress, sitting on the bed comfortably in the presence of her husband.HEENT: On the scalp, there is a healed, granulated, erythematic abrasion on the right occiput. There is no active bleeding or open lesion. The crown of her head shows marked silver hyperkeratinized skin with white flecks throughout the hair region. The head is normocephalic. Eyes show EOMI, PERRLA. Funduscopic exam shows no hemorrhages, AV nicking or edema. Red reflex present. Sclerae white. Conjunctivae pink and moist. Nares patent. No exudates. TMs are intact without erythema or exudates as is the throat. Buccal mucosa is moist. The patient is nontender around the face.NECK: Supple. No lymphadenopathy. There is presence of yellow violaceous ecchymosis on the postauricular region of the patient’s neck. There is no lymphadenopathy. There is some slight tenderness. The patient does have a scar in the anterior region of her neck consistent with an old ACDF. Clavicles are nontender.CHEST: Nontender.HEART: Regular rate and rhythm, S1, S2. No murmurs, rubs or gallops.BACK: No cervical, thoracic, lumbar, sacral tenderness. No CVA tenderness.LUNGS: Clear to auscultation. No wheezes, rales or rhonchi.ABDOMEN: Positive bowel sounds, no hepatosplenomegaly or masses.NEUROLOGIC: Cranial nerves II through XII are intact. Romberg is normal. Gait is normal. Strength is 5/5, equal, upper and lower extremities with full range of motion active and passively. Alert and oriented to person, place, time and situation. Sensation is intact on all distal extremities. Cerebellar functions are normal. No pronator drift.PSYCHIATRIC: The patient has a normal affect and responds appropriately.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
VITAL SIGNS: Bloodpressure 132/88, pulse 76, respiratory rate 18, temperature 98.4 degrees,oxygen saturation 100% on room air.
GENERAL: The patientis able to speak in full sentences. Not usingany accessory muscles of respiration. Appearsto be in no acute distress.
HEENT: Eyes: Sclerae anicteric. There is no conjunctival pallor. ENT:Mucous membranes are moist. Notonsillar enlargement, erythema or exudate.
NECK: Nolymphadenopathy.
RESPIRATORY: Clear toauscultation bilaterally.
CARDIOVASCULAR: S1,S2 present. No murmurs, gallops or rubs.
ABDOMEN: Soft. Tender in the left suprapubic and rightsuprapubic region. There is norebound. There is no guarding. There is no abdominal distention. Bowel sounds present in all 4 quadrants.
PELVIC: Reveals thatthere is blood in the vaginal vault.There appears to be a scant amount of mucopurulent discharge in thecervical os. The patient does displayleft and right adnexal as well as midline uterine tenderness as well ascervical motion tenderness.
NEUROLOGIC: Alert andoriented, answering questions appropriately, moving all extremities x4.
PSYCHIATRIC: Thepatient's mood is euthymic. Affect iscongruent with mood.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
GENERAL: Alert andoriented x3, pleasant, cooperative gentleman, somewhat thin looking, does notappear to be in acute distress.
VITAL SIGNS: Bloodpressure 115/70 mmHg, heart rate 55-74 (sinus bradycardia-sinus rhythm),respirations 19-21 breaths per minute. Afebrile. Pulse ox 98% on 2 liters per minute of oxygenvia nasal cannula continuously.
HEENT: Normocephalicand atraumatic. Pupils are equal, round,reactive to light and accommodation.Extraocular muscles are intact.Oropharynx clear. No abnormaldeviations.
NECK: Supple. No JVD.No hepatojugular reflux. Nothyromegaly or lymphadenopathy. Nocarotid bruits to auscultation.
LUNGS: Decreasedbreath sounds bilaterally. Somescattered expiratory rhonchi bilaterally.
HEART: Regular rate,bradycardia. Heart sounds somewhatdistant.
ABDOMEN: Scaphoid inshape. Bowel sounds are present. Soft, nontender, nondistended. No organomegaly. No costovertebral angle tenderness topercussion.
GENITOURINARY: Foleycatheter is in place. Signs of grosshematuria.
EXTREMITIES: Noperipheral edema. Peripheral pulses arepresent, decreased over both feet.
NEUROLOGIC: Grosslyintact.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
VITAL SIGNS: Bloodpressure 136/84, heart rate 118, respiratory rate 18, temperature 97.8 orally,oxygen saturation 99% on room air.
GENERAL: A visibly upsetand distressed woman found sitting on a stretcher, brought in by squad,breathing normally.
HEENT:Atraumatic. Pupils are equal,round and reactive to light.
NECK: Supple andnontender. No lymphadenopathy.
PULMONARY: Chest isatraumatic. Lungs are clear toauscultation bilaterally.
HEART: Regular rateand rhythm. No rubs, murmurs or gallops.
ABDOMEN:Atraumatic. Soft and nontender.
SKIN: No rashes. Warm, pink and dry.
NEUROLOGIC: Alert andoriented x3. Nonfocal.
PSYCHIATRIC: Mood andaffect are appropriate to content.
EXTREMITIES: Upperextremities: Atraumatic, warm, pink, 2+radial pulses, sensation intact to light touch, 5+ motor throughout. Lower extremities: Left lower extremity is atraumatic, 5+ motorstrength throughout, sensation intact to light touch, 2+ dorsalis pedispulse. Right lower extremity: Atraumatic proximal to the foot. There is a gunshot wound to the plantaraspect of the right foot with two open wounds.The fourth toe has a subungual hemorrhage present. All toes have sensation intact to light touchand the patient is able to move all toes; however, limits the movement due topain. Capillary refill is less than 2seconds in all toes. There is 2+dorsalis pedis and posterior tibialis pulse present in the right foot. The patient is able to dorsiflex andplantarflex her foot with 5+ strength, without any pain. There is no obvious foreign debris in either ofthe gunshot wounds.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
GENERAL: Reveals awell-developed, well-nourished female who is quite distraught, but is in noacute distress.
HEENT: Headnormocephalic. Normal hair distribution and texture without masses. The earsare normal. Conjunctivae are noninjected. Sclerae not icteric. The pupils areequal, round and reactive to light. Extraocular movements are full withoutnystagmus. Visual fields are decreased in the right visual field toconfrontation. Fundi are unremarkable. The nose is markedly congested withclear mucoid discharge bilaterally. The uvula elevates in the midline. Thetongue protrudes in the midline. There is no injection or exudate. The TMJs arenormal without crepitation.
NECK: Supple withoutmasses, adenopathy or thyromegaly. There is no JVD or HJR. Kernig andBrudzinski signs are negative.
CHEST: Symmetrical.The chest wall is nontender.
BREASTS: Symmetricalwithout masses.
HEART: Regularrhythm. S1, S2 without S3, S4, murmurs, thrills, rubs or ectopy.
LUNGS: Clear toP&A.
BACK AND SPINE: Thereis no CVA tenderness or spinal deformity.
ABDOMEN: Soft, warmand nontender without palpable organomegaly or masses. Bowel sounds arepresent. There are no abdominal bruits. There are no inguinal or femoralhernias or inguinal nodes palpable.
EXTERNAL GENITALIA: Normal female for age.
SKIN: No edema,masses or rashes.
MUSCULOSKELETAL:Unremarkable.
VASCULAR: Revealsgood pulses in the extremities and carotids without bruits.
NEUROLOGIC: Thepatient is quite upset but alert, oriented and responsive. Motor strength is5/5 on the right, 3-4/5 on the left. No involuntary movements or tremors.Sensation is decreased on the left. Cranial nerves II through XII intact. Thetongue protrudes to the right, but this is not new. Cerebellum cannot betested. Gait is not tested. Romberg cannot be tested. Reflexes are 2+ biceps,triceps, brachioradialis. The right toe is downgoing. The left toe is neutral.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
VITAL SIGNS:Temperature 98.4, pulse 160, respirations 30, 98% on room air, bloodpressure 94/52.
HEENT: Head appearslarge (95th percentile for age). No tympanic membrane erythema bilaterally. Nopharyngeal erythema or exudate. Mucous membranes moist. No nasal discharge orcongestion appreciated. No conjunctival erythema or eye discharge.
NECK: Supple. Nolymphadenopathy.
LUNGS: Good air entrybilaterally. Minimally coarse on expiration. No actual wheezing. No crackles.No retractions. No tachypnea.
HEART: Regular rateand rhythm without murmur.
ABDOMEN: Soft.Positive bowel sounds. Nontender.
GENITOURINARY: Normal male.
SKIN: Moist.Capillary refill brisk. No rashes appreciated.
NEUROLOGIC: Alert,appropriate, smiling, laughing, reaches for things. Good muscle tone.PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
GENERAL: The patientis a well-developed, well-nourished male, in no distress. The patient is alertand oriented x3. Affect is normal.
VITAL SIGNS: Bloodpressure 142/72, pulse 72 and regular, respirations normal.
HEENT: Conjunctivaeare pink. Sclerae are white. Skin turgor is normal.
NECK: No JVD. Thereis transmitted murmur to his carotids bilaterally. Carotid upstrokes arenormal. There is no thyromegaly.
LUNGS: Significantfor crackles bilaterally about one-fourth of the way with no wheezing orrhonchi.
CHEST: Chestexpansion symmetrical.
HEART: A 3/6 systolicmurmur at the base of the heart and right upper sternal border consistent withaortic stenosis as well as a 2/4 diastolic murmur consistent with aorticinsufficiency. PMI is normal.
ABDOMEN: Soft,nontender. No hepatosplenomegaly. There is no pulsatile aorta.
EXTREMITIES: No clubbing,cyanosis or edema. Motor strength is symmetrical.
SPINE: There is nokyphoscoliosis.
PE Sample # 1  PE Sample # 2   PE Sample # 3 PE Sample # 4 Infant PE Sample # 5
Medical Transcription Word Seeker - Google Search for MTs - Searches just Medical Websites