ORIF Small Finger Metacarpal Shaft Fracture Sample Report

DATE OF OPERATION: MM/DD/YYYY
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:
Left small finger with displaced metacarpal shaft fracture.
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:
Left small finger with displaced metacarpal shaft fracture.
OPERATION PERFORMED:
Open reduction and internal fixation of left small fingermetacarpal shaft fracture.
SURGEON: John Doe, MD
ANESTHESIA: Generalwith regional block.
DESCRIPTION OF OPERATION:The patient was brought to the operating room and positioned supine onthe operating table. A time-out was taken at which point the patient'sidentity, procedure, laterality and surgical plan were reviewed and confirmed.Then, 1 gram of IV cefazolin was administered and general anesthesia wasinduced. A regional block was placed by the anesthesiologist. A left armtourniquet was placed and the left upper extremity was then prepped and drapedin standard sterile surgical fashion. The planned longitudinal incision wasmarked out. After exsanguination, the tourniquet was inflated. A skin incisionwas made and carefully carried down to the subcutaneous tissue. The extensortendon to the small finger was carefully retracted radially. The periosteumunderling the fascial site was opened and dissected radially and ulnarly. Thefascial site was cleaned and fascia reduced without significant difficulty. Theappropriately-sized 2.0 mm Synthes plate was chosen and affixed to the dorsalulnar aspect of the metacarpal. Being satisfied with the plate position, thescrew holes were filled with 2.0 mm screws with good purchase. Satisfactoryreduction and hardware placement were confirmed on fluoroscopy. The wound wasthen thoroughly irrigated. The interossei and periosteum were repaired over theplate and the dermis was then reapproximated using 4-0 Monocryl suture. Thehand was then washed and dried and 10 mL of 0.5% Marcaine with epinephrine wasinjected into the skin about the incision. A dry sterile dressing was placedfollowed by a well-padded ulnar gutter splint. The tourniquet was let down withimmediate reperfusion to the entire hand. Estimated blood loss was minimal.Sponge, needle and instrument counts were correct and certified x2.ORIF of Radius and Ulnar Fracture Sample  ORIF of Thumb Intra-articular Base Fracture
Orthopedic Operative Samples #1      Orthopedic Operative Samples #2
Medical Transcription Word Seeker - Google Search for MTs - Searches just Medical Websites