Cystoscopy and Cystolitholapaxy Medical Transcription Operative Sample Report

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:Left renal calculi.
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSES:
1. Left renalcalculi. 
2. Urethral calculus.
OPERATIONS PERFORMED: 
1. Cystoscopy - throughsuprapubic sinus. 
2. Left ureteralstent placement. 
3. Cystolitholapaxy. 
SURGEON: John Doe, MD
ANESTHESIA: General. 
DRAINS: None. 
SPECIMENS REMOVED: Urethral/bladdercalculus (1 x 2.6 cm). 
TUBES: Foley, 24-French.
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: Zero. 
COMPLICATIONS: None. 
DESCRIPTION OF OPERATION: The patient was brought to the cystoscopysuite by the OR and anesthesia staff and put on the cystoscopy table. Thepatient was gently induced with anesthesia and intubated without difficulty.The patient was then brought down to the edge of the cystoscopy table andplaced in dorsal lithotomy position. His peritoneum and lower abdomen wereprepped and draped in a sterile fashion. His suprapubic catheter, which was a24-French catheter, was removed. At this point, a 21-French rigid cystoscopewas passed, with a 30-degree lens, through the suprapubic sinus easily into thebladder. The bladder was systematically inspected and showed some chronicinflammatory changes due to chronic indwelling suprapubic tube. His ureteralorifices were identified bilaterally and were in normal anatomic configuration.
At this point, we followed the trigone down into theprostatic fossa where the verumontanum was identified. There was also a largeurethral/bladder calculus approximately 1 x 2.6 cm sitting in the prostaticfossa. On later examination with the 70-degree scope, it was seen that therewas no outside communication of the urethra to the external genitalia, and thatthe urethra must have been tied off at some point in the past. Attention wasthen turned to the left ureteral orifice. A 0.035 inch Glidewire was attemptedto be passed through the cystoscope into the left ureteral orifice. This wasunsuccessful, as the angle was difficult through the suprapubic sinus. At thispoint, an angled Glidewire was tried, which was also unsuccessful. We thentried an angled, tapered 5-French catheter and this was successful in enteringthe ureteral orifice and was passed through this up into the left renal pelvisunder direct visualization and fluoroscopic guidance. Using the push-pulltechnique, the angled, tapered catheter was removed over the wire and a 6-Frenchx 24 cm left ureteral stent was placed. The wire was removed and a curl wasseen in the renal pelvis under fluoroscopic guidance and under directvisualization in the bladder.
Our attention was then turned to the bladder/urethralcalculus. The rigid cystoscope was removed and a stone crusher was used tobreak up the stone into multiple small pieces. The stone was quite easy tocrush. The stone crusher was then removed and an Ellik bulb suction device wasused to attempt to remove these fragments, however, this was unsuccessful dueto the angle. A glass Toomey syringe was then used to barbotage and attemptremoval of the stone fragments. This was also unsuccessful. At this point, weused a spaghetti suction catheter to suction the stone fragments through thesheath of the cystoscope and this was successful for the most part. There weresome residual stone fragments, but they were small and insignificant. Minimalirritation was caused and there were no active bleeders identified. At thispoint, the scope was removed and a 24-French Foley catheter was replaced in thebladder. The patient's urine was clear to pink after the procedure was over anddraining well. The patient was transitioned to the PACU after beingsuccessfully extubated in stable condition.
MedicalTranscription Word Seeker - Google Custom Search for MTs - Searches justMedical WebsitesMedical Transcription Samples