EEG (Sleep Medicine) Transcribed Medical Transcription Sample Report

DATE OF EEG: MM/DD/YYYY
REFERRING PHYSICIAN: John Doe, MD
INDICATIONS:
A patient referred for the evaluation of possible  seizures.
TECHNIQUE:
The 18-channel digital video and digital EEG  monitoring was performed with conventional scalp electrode placement according  to the 10-20 electrode convention. The EEG was reviewed in bipolar and  referential montages.
FINDINGS:
In the awake state, with the eyes closed, the  dominant posterior rhythm consisted of well-formed, regular, medium amplitude 9  to 10 hertz alpha activity. This was intermixed with low amplitude beta  activity diffusely. Hyperventilation was performed and resulted in some  increased amplitude and slowing of EEG activity. The patient was "staring"  after hyperventilation, but there were no epileptiform discharges. Intermittent  photic stimulation was not performed. The entire sleep recording was scanned and  reviewed. Normal features of sleep were seen including vertex sharp transients,  K-complexes, and sleep spindles.
In deeper stages of sleep, higher amplitude  posterior slow waves were observed. There were no interictal abnormalities. More  than 30 pushbutton events were recorded. These consisted of various phenomena  such as odd eye movements, staring, subjective changes, jumping episode, closing  of the eyes, pressing on the eyes and eyelid blinking. In addition, the patient  self-induced several of the spells, where the patient arched his back and neck  and stretched his neck. None of these resulted in convulsion or loss of  consciousness, but the patient said he felt dizzy.
In any case, no EEG changes  of significance were seen with any of these phenomena at all. There was  considerable artifact occurring with many of these phenomena.
IMPRESSION:
Abnormal prolonged video EEG monitoring for age.  Normal awake and sleep features are seen. No epileptiform discharges are  observed. None of the clinical events of concern were associated with EEG  change of significance.
Medical Transcription Samples EEG Medical Transcription Sample Reports
Medical Transcription Word Seeker - Google Custom Search for MTs - Searches just Medical Websites