Open Reduction and Internal Fixation of Left Humerus MT Sample Report

OPERATION IN DETAIL: The patient was brought to the operating  room and laid supine on the OR table. After general anesthesia was induced, the  patient was turned over to the lateral decubitus position. The left upper  extremity was prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion. A standard  posterior approach to the humeral shaft was performed. Dissection was carried  down through the subcutaneous layer. The interval between the long and lateral  heads of the triceps was identified and the triceps tendon was incised in the  midline distally. Careful dissection was carried out to expose the radial nerve  and the neurovascular bundle. This bundle was encased in a scar tissue and  careful dissection was performed to free up the bundle from the eschar. Penrose  drains were placed around the neurovascular bundle before the fracture was  exposed. Next, the fracture callus was identified and taken down. The bone graft  from the callus was saved for later bone grafting. Next, the humeral shaft  nonunion was exposed and cleaned with a curette and rongeurs, after the  fractured ends were thoroughly exposed. Next, a 12-hole LCDC plate was contoured  to the posterior aspect of the humerus. Compression was obtained across the  fracture. Four screws were placed proximal and four screws distal to the  fracture. Compression was applied to eccentric positioning of the screws. After  excellent reduction was obtained, bone graft from the callus was then packed  around the fracture site. This was done after the wound was thoroughly irrigated  with normal saline. Next, the fascia was closed with a running 2-0 Vicryl  suture. The subcutaneous layer was closed with 3-0 Vicryl suture followed by  staples for the skin. Sterile dressings were applied and the patient was then  turned over to the supine position, extubated, and awakened from anesthesia. The  patient was transferred onto a stretcher and taken to the PACU for  recovery.
MT Word Help
Medical Transcription Samples
Medical Transcription Word Seeker - Google Custom Search for MTs - Searches just Medical Websites