Eye Radioactive Iodine-125 Plaque Removal Transcription Sample

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:
Choroidal melanoma, left eye.
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:
Choroidal melanoma, left eye.
PROCEDURES PERFORMED:
1. Removal ofradioactive iodine-125 plaque, left eye. 
2. Tumor lasertreatment, left eye. 
SURGEON: John Doe, MD
ANESTHESIA:Local/MAC.
DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE:The patient was brought to the operating room and was positioned on theoperating table. Cardiac and blood pressure monitoring devices were applied.Intravenous sedatives were administered and a retrobulbar and supratrochlearinjection of Carbocaine 2% plain was administered without complications. Thepatient was prepped and draped in the usual fashion for a procedure of the lefteye. A lid speculum was inserted between the lids of the left eye to expose theeye. The conjunctival sutures from the recent prior procedure were cut andremoved. The conjunctiva was reflected into the superotemporal quadrant toreveal the plaque fixation sutures and radioactive plaque. The three plaquefixation sutures were cut and removed. The plaque was then slid away from itsapposition to the sclera and transferred off the table to the lead carrier. Theconjunctiva was closed with interrupted sutures of 7-0 Vicryl. The lasertreatment was then performed using the argon green indirect ophthalmoscopelaser with 20 diopter lens. The spot size on the retina was adjusted to between0.25 and 0.5 mm on the retina during the treatment. The power setting was 300milliwatts on continuous duration exposure. The end point of treatment was dullwhite discoloration of the entire juxtapapillary portion of the choroidaltumor. The total treatment time was approximately 12 minutes. Followingcompletion of the laser therapy, the lid speculum was removed. Bacitracin,polymyxin ointment was applied to the surface of the eye. The lids were patchedwith a sterile eye patch. The patient tolerated the procedure well and wastransferred to same day surgery in satisfactory condition for postoperativecare.Transvitreal Fine Needle Aspiration Biopsy of Choroidal Tumor SampleTrabeculectomy Sample ReportRadical Pterygium Excision with Conjunctival Graft Sample
Ophthalmology Operative Samples # 1    Ophthalmology Operative Sample Reports #2
Medical Transcription Word Seeker - Google Search for MTs - Searches just Medical Websites