Right Ring Finger MRI Medical Transcription Example

DATE OF STUDY: MM/DD/YYYY
REFERRING PHYSICIAN: John Doe, MD
TECHNIQUE AND FINDINGS: Right ring finger images were taken using STIR and FatSat in the sagittal and axial planes. Also, T1 weighted images were performed as well.
We see extreme flexion of the fourth finger. The bony structures of the first, second and third phalanx are grossly intact. No lytic, blastic or erosive changes are seen. This is including the MCP joint.
There are metallic wires traversing the fourth metacarpal bone such that there is some artifact extending from that into the proximal first phalanx on the STIR images. No clear identification of the fourth metacarpal bone can be identified secondary to the artifact of that K-wire.
We do see, however, that the MCP joint, which is seen, is clean without evidence of loose joint bodies or erosive change in that area. The prominent flexor digitorum profundus and superficialis tendon is noted flexed and intact with regards to this right fourth finger.
There is a very minimal amount of fluid noted around the distal first phalanx or DIP joint area, but no significant joint effusion is seen. No ligament laxity or subluxation is indicated on this examination.
No abnormality around the extensor tendons or central band is indicated on this examination. This is also true of the collateral ligaments around the PIP and DIP joints. There is no evidence that would suggest that they are grossly disrupted.
IMPRESSION: 
1. Somewhat limited examination due to the presence of a K-wire to the fourth metacarpal bone. However, the phalanx bones of the fourth finger, which is in extreme flexion, are intact without lytic or blastic disease, no erosive changes and no significant callus formation.
2. The metacarpophalangeal, proximal interphalangeal and distal interphalangeal joint spaces show no erosion or loose joint bodies. No gross irregularity is seen to indicate degenerative disease of focal significance.
3. The extensor tendons as well as the large flexor digitorum and superficialis and profundus flexor tendons are intact.
MRA Circle of Willis and Head MRI Sample
Left Shoulder MRI Sample Report
MRI of the Right Knee Sampl
e
             
Abdominal MRI Sample Report
Right Elbow MRI Sample Repor
t
            
MRI Medical Transcription Sample Reports
Medical Transcription Word Seeker - Google Custom Search for MTs
Medical Transcription Word Seeker - Google Custom Search for MTs
Medical Transcription Word Seeker - Google Custom Search for MTs
Medical Transcription Word Seeker - Google Custom Search for MT
s
Email This
BlogThis!
Share to Twitter
Share to Facebook
Share to Pinterest