Shoulder Arthroscopic Labral Repair Transcribed Operative Example

DESCRIPTION OF OPERATION: The patient was taken to the operating  room, and after scalene block was administered by the anesthesia team, the  patient was positioned on the operating room table in a sitting position.  Preoperative antibiotics were given. The left shoulder was prescrubbed with  Betadine. Next, the left upper extremity, including the left base of the neck  and shoulder, were prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion. After bony  palpation, a posterior portal was created with a 15 scalpel blade and this was  used for the arthroscope. The arthroscope was placed and a complete inventory of  the left shoulder was performed. Under direct visualization, anterior-superior  portal was created in a similar fashion and this was used for instrumentation  and outflow. The superior labrum including the biceps anchor demonstrated no  evidence of tears. There was a tear of the anterior-superior labrum starting at  the 11 o'clock position and extending to the 9 o'clock position. There was  significant fraying, which was debrided with the radiofrequency device and  further demonstration of the personality of the tear demonstrated a complete  tear off the glenoid rim. Irregularities of the glenoid rim was identified. It  was felt by the operative team that it was of an acute nature, despite a  one-year delay for surgery. This also incorporated the anchor of the middle  glenohumeral ligament. The anterior-inferior, inferior, and rest of the  posterior labrum were within normal limits. There was a negative drive-through  sign. The axillary pouch showed no evidence of loose bodies. The articular  surface of the glenoid fossa and humeral head were within normal limits. The  rotator interval showed no defects. The superior glenohumeral ligament, middle  glenohumeral ligament, and anterior band of the inferior glenohumeral ligament  were within normal limits. The biceps was medialized, and there was no  instability or fraying or neovascularization. The supraspinatus and posterior  cuff were visualized, and there was no evidence of tears. 
Under direct visualization, an anterior-inferior portal was created in a  similar fashion just superior to the intra-articular subscapularis and this was  used for instrumentation. The rim of the glenoid was debrided with a 4.5 full  radius shaver to bleeding bone. This was used to help further reparative  process. A 3.0 Bio-FASTak suture anchor was then placed at the 10 o'clock  position. Utilizing arthroscopic knot-tying techniques, a suture shuttle was  performed and a labral repair was performed with #2 FiberWire in a simple  half-hitch fashion. This now recreated the buttress with good labral fixation  with probing. The arthroscope was then placed into the anterior-superior portal  and visualization demonstrated good buttress with good fixation. It was felt by  the operative team that an adequate arthroscopic labral repair had been  performed. 
The instruments were removed, and the portal  sites were closed with 4-0 nylon in a simple interrupted fashion. All sponge and  instrument counts proved to be correct, and estimated blood loss was less than 5  mL. The wounds were then cleaned and dressed under the sterile field. A Polar  Care ice machine and a shoulder immobilizer were placed to the left upper  extremity. The patient was then taken to the recovery room in a stable  condition.
MT Word Help
Medical Transcription Samples
Medical Transcription Word Seeker - Google Custom Search for MTs - Searches just Medical Websites