Neurology Consultation Transcribed Medical Transcription Example Report

DATE OF CONSULTATION: MM/DD/YYYY
REFERRING PHYSICIAN: Jane Doe, MD
CONSULTANT: John Doe, MD
REASON FOR CONSULTATION/HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a  (XX)-year-old right-handed female with a history of hypothyroidism, who was  admitted to the hospital last night with severe headache, sudden onset,  localized to right frontoparietal area, radiating to the back. Neurological  consultation requested for evaluation of the same. The patient reports having  developed sudden headache on the right side, throbbing in nature, last night,  localized to the right parietal and frontal areas, radiating to the back of the  head and right side of the neck. It is severe associated with nausea, but no  vomiting. The patient does report blurred vision and photophobia. No speech  difficulties or any diplopia, dysphagia or any focal neurological symptoms. She  denies any vertigo. She states that, later, she did have possible  hyperventilation and also complained of numbness in the lips and fingers but  that resolved. She was brought to the emergency room. CT of the head without  contrast was reported as unremarkable. Her blood pressure in the emergency room  was 192/102 and pulse 72 per minute. She was given a dose of Demerol, which did  help her, and was admitted for further management. At this time, she is feeling  much better. She still has the headache but not as bad as last  night.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Hypothyroidism, allergies, and  intermittent bifrontal headaches from allergies in the past. She has no history  of increased hypertension, diabetes, TIA, severe seizures or any cardiac  disease.
MEDICATIONS: Synthroid and Allegra.
ALLERGIES: SHE HAS NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES.
SOCIAL HISTORY: She smokes 5 to 6 cigarettes a day. She drinks  alcohol socially.
FAMILY HISTORY: Noncontributory.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: General: The patient is a well-built  female not in acute distress. Vital Signs: Her blood pressure today is 142/78,  pulse 68 per minute and regular, and she is afebrile. HEENT: Examination  unremarkable. Neck: Showed some muscle tenderness on the right side. Full  range of motion. No carotid bruit. Heart: S1 and S2 normal. No murmur,  gallop or rub. Lungs: Clear. Neurological: She is alert and oriented in all  three spheres. Normal speech and language function. Memory is intact in all  modalities. Pupils are 3 mm, round, and reactive to light and accommodation.  No visual field defects. Extraocular movements are full. No nystagmus. She  does have mild photophobia. No facial asymmetry. Cranial nerves are intact.  Muscle bulk and tone are within normal limits. No evidence of any focal motor  deficits. Sensory examination is unremarkable. Deep tendon reflexes 2+ and  symmetrical. Plantar response is downgoing bilaterally. Finger-to-nose test  did not show any ataxia. Gait not tested at this time.
LABORATORY DATA: Chemistry profile on admission showed sodium  136 and potassium 3.4. Glucose, BUN, and creatinine normal. Liver profile was  normal. PT and PTT within normal limits. WBC 11,200, H and H 14.2 and 41.4,  and platelets 350,000. CT of the head without contrast as discussed above and  was reported as negative.
IMPRESSION:
 1. Sudden onset of right parietal headache,  nonfocal neurological examination, no signs of any meningeal irritation. Most  likely etiology is vascular headache versus related to uncontrolled  hypertension. Possibility of an intracranial lesion cannot be ruled out  completely.2. She does have mild cervical strain, mostly in the right  side. This might contribute to headaches.
RECOMMENDATIONS: We will get MRI of the brain with contrast.  MRA of circle of Willis was just completed. I will also get C-spine x-rays,  ESR, and continue symptomatic treatment. We will continue to monitor  closely.
Thank you, Dr. Doe, for the consult. We will follow the patient  with you.
Gastroenterology Consultation MT Sample Report     Neuro Critical Care Consultation Sample ReportOncology MT Sample Report                      ENT Consult MT Sample ReportRenal Consult MT Sample Report                  Cardiovascular Consultation MT Sample ReportNeuropsychology Consultation MT Sample Report     Hematology / Oncology Consult Sample
Medical Transcription Word Seeker - Google Search for MTs - Searches just Medical Websites