Right Shoulder Hemiarthroplasty Medical Transcription Operative Sample Report

DESCRIPTION OF OPERATION: The patient was taken to the operating  room, and after a scalene block was administered by the anesthesia team, the  patient was positioned on the operating room table in a beach-chair position.  Preoperative antibiotics were given. The right shoulder was prescrubbed with  Betadine. Next, the right upper extremity, including the right base of the neck  and shoulder, were prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion. After bony  palpation, a longitudinal skin incision was made over the anterior aspect of the  right shoulder. The subcutaneous tissue was dissected and hemostasis was  obtained with electrocautery. Dissection was carried down to the deltopectoral  interval. The cephalic vein was identified, protected, and preserved throughout  the case. A deep retractor was placed between the deltoid and pectoralis major  to help with deep exposure. The clavipectoral fascia was then incised. Upon  doing this, large gelatinous material was expressed from the joint as well as  the biceps tendon and this was removed with suction. This was characteristic of  rheumatoid arthritis. The tissue quality about the rotator cuff as well as the  surrounding musculature was friable and diseased due to her rheumatoid  arthritis. The subscapularis was then split leaving a 1 cm cuff. The medial edge  was tagged with #2 FiberWire in a Mason-Allen fashion. This was used for repair  at the end of the case. Humeral head was identified and had pannus covering as  well as significant degenerative changes. The proximal humeral cut was then  performed with an oscillating saw at 20 degrees of retroversion. This was sized  and removed and sent to Pathology for further evaluation. The glenoid was then  exposed and a complete labrectomy was performed. Significant erosive changes  were seen throughout with no evidence of articular surface. With further  inspection and manual palpation, it was felt that there was good contour with  central wear. Because of this, it was felt that no formal glenoid plasty need be  performed. With the deficient rotator cuff identified more proximally as well as  posteriorly, it was felt that no formal glenoid component would be replaced.  Attention was then returned back to the proximal humerus. This was reamed and  broached to accommodate an 8 mm stem. Due to the patient's soft bone, it was  felt that this would be cemented. The cement plug was placed and an 8 mm Mini  Biomet stem was then cemented into place. After sizing, it was felt that  extended articular surface head would be used to help articulate with the  acromion. A 44 x 17 was trialed which demonstrated 50-50% of anterior-posterior  translation, as well as 30% inferior translation. This was then tapped into  position. The shoulder was reduced and liberally irrigated with bacitracin  solution under power irrigation. The rest of the synovium was resected with  Metzenbaum and Mayo scissors. The subscapularis was then repaired with #2  FiberWire. The shoulder could easily be externally rotated to 90 degrees and  forward flexed to 180 degrees with no stress on the subscapularis repair. The  wound was again liberally irrigated with bacitracin solution. Hemostasis was  meticulously obtained with electrocautery. The deltopectoral interval was closed  with 0 Vicryl in a simple interrupted fashion. The subcutaneous tissue was  closed with 2-0 Vicryl in a simple interrupted fashion and skin was closed with  4-0 Monocryl in a running subcuticular pull-out stitch. All sponge and  instrument counts proved to be correct and estimated blood loss was 250 mL. The  wound was then cleaned and Steri-Stripped and dressed under the sterile field. A  Polar Care ice machine and a shoulder immobilizer was placed to the right upper  extremity. The patient was taken to the recovery room in a stable  condition.
MT Word HelpMedical Transcription SamplesMedical Transcription Word Seeker - Google Custom Search for MTs - Searches just Medical Websites