Left Heart Cath Selective Coronary Angiography Sample Report

PROCEDURES PERFORMED:
1. Left heartcatheterization.
2. Selective coronaryangiography.
INDICATION FOR PROCEDURE:Non-ST elevation MI.
DESCRIPTION OF PROCEDURE:The patient was brought to the cardiac catheterization lab in fastingstate, informed consent was obtained and the patient was prepped and draped insterile fashion. Mild sedation was administered via IV Versed and fentanyl withattending present during administration of sedation. The right common femoralregion was then anesthetized via 10 mL of 2% lidocaine and the right commonfemoral artery was accessed via single wall puncture technique and a 4-Frenchfemoral arterial sheath was advanced over a guidewire using modified Seldingertechnique. Next, a 4-French angled pigtail catheter was advanced over aguidewire to the level of the ascending aorta. This catheter was used to crossthe aortic valve and enter the left ventricle where hemodynamic measurementswere obtained. Due to significantly elevated left ventricular end-diastolicpressures, no left ventriculography was performed. The pigtail catheter wasthen used to obtain hemodynamic measurements upon pullback across the aorticvalve into the ascending aorta. This pigtail catheter was then subsequentlywithdrawn over a guidewire. Next, a 4-French 3DRC catheter was advanced over aguidewire to the level of the ascending aorta. This catheter was used toselectively engage the right coronary artery. The right coronary artery and itsbranches were then imaged in multiple planes and views. The 3DRC catheter wasthen withdrawn over a guidewire. Next, a 4-French JL4.5 catheter was advancedover the guidewire to the level of the ascending aorta. This catheter was used toselectively engage the left main coronary artery. The left main coronary arteryand its branches were then imaged in multiple planes and views. The JL4.5catheter was then withdrawn over the guidewire. At the conclusion of theprocedure, the patient had the femoral arterial sheaths removed in the cardiaccatheterization lab with hemostasis obtained via manual compression, and thepatient was transferred to the coronary care unit for further observation andcare.
SELECTIVE CORONARY ANGIOGRAPHY:
1. Left main: The left main bifurcates into the leftanterior descending and circumflex coronary artery. The left main isangiographically free of significant stenosis.
2. Left anteriordescending: The left anterior descendingcoronary artery is noted to provide two diagonal branches and terminates as theapical recurrent branch. The proximal LAD after this first small caliberdiagonal branch is noted to have a 90-95% stenosis.
3. Circumflex: The circumflex coronary artery is noted toprovide four obtuse marginal branches with OM2 being largest caliber obtusemarginal branch. This OM2 branch is noted to have subtotal occlusionproximally.
4. Right coronaryartery: The right coronary artery isdominant and is noted to be completely occluded in its mid segment aftersupplying an acute marginal branch. Also noted is the presence of bridging collateralsthat faintly fill the distal vessel. Additionally, during left coronaryinjections, the presence of left to right collaterals from the apical LADsupplying the distal right coronary artery is also noted.
LEFT HEART CATHETERIZATION:
Left ventricular end-diastolic pressure 27 pre-A wave and 40post-A wave. There was no gradient noted upon pullback.
FINAL DIAGNOSIS:
1. Severethree-vessel coronary artery disease in a diabetic patient.
2. Significantlyelevated left ventricular end-diastolic pressures.
PLAN: The patient wasreferred for coronary artery bypass grafting and received IV Lasix in thecardiac catheterization lab given his significantly elevated left ventricularend-diastolic pressures.
Electrophysiology Sample Reports    Cardiac Cath Sample Report
Cardiology Operative Samples #1    Cardiology Operative Samples #2Medical Transcription Word Seeker - Google Search for MTs - Searches just Medical Websites