MRA of Carotid Arteries Transcription Sample Report

MRA OF CAROTID ARTERIESDATE OF STUDY: MM/DD/YYYYREFERRING PHYSICIAN: John Doe, MDINDICATION FOR STUDY: A 50-69% stenosis of the right carotid, per carotid Doppler done, MM/DD/YYYY.TECHNIQUE AND STUDY FINDINGS: A 3D time-of-flight study was performed. Contrast was not given, as venous access could not be obtained, despite attempts three times.Raw data was obtained as well as selected images of the right and left carotid artery separately as well as together. Vertebral arteries are also included on the composite images. The vertebral bodies appear fairly symmetric without significant obvious narrowing. The left internal carotid artery appears normal. There is no obvious stenosis involving the left system.On the right, the internal carotid artery is narrowed compared with that of the left; this is not severe and this is moderate in significance. There is no obvious ulceration. The narrowing is in the region of the right carotid bulb and does appear to be moderate, approximately 50-70%, as appreciated by a carotid Doppler ultrasound.IMPRESSION:1. The vertebral arteries appear symmetric and unremarkable.2. The left system appears unremarkable. There is no obvious stenosis or ulceration involving the left internal or external carotid arteries.3. On the right, there is some narrowing of the right internal carotid artery at the level of the bulb that appears moderate in degree. This is notably different than the left side. This stenosis is approximately 50-70% correlating with the findings by ultrasound. There is no obvious ulcerative plaque.
MRA OF THE CAROTID ARTERIES WITH CONTRASTDATE OF STUDY: MM/DD/YYYYREFERRING PHYSICIAN: John Doe, MDINDICATION FOR STUDY: Status post CVA.TECHNIQUE AND STUDY FINDINGS: Raw data and composite images were available. A 2D time-of-flight study was performed.The left vertebral artery is much larger than that of the right and clearly dominant. There is some narrowing of the right vertebral artery compared to the left.The left internal carotid artery is slightly narrowed compared with that of the right suggestive of some mild to moderate stenosis. There is no severe stenosis. There is no alteration.The left ICA/ECA complex is slightly splayed compared with that of the right. There is no obvious mass seen on the raw data. This may be congenital anomaly or some tortuosity.IMPRESSION:1. The left vertebral artery is dominant compared with that of the right, as the right is more narrowed.2. The internal carotid arteries are minimally narrowed more in the left than the right. This is suggestive of some mild to moderate stenosis. There is no severe narrowing. There is no alteration.3. The left internal carotid artery/external carotid artery complex is slightly splayed compared with that on the right. We do not see a discrete mass on the raw data. This may be some atherosclerosis, some tortuosity, or congenital asymmetry.4. If clinically warranted, carotid Doppler ultrasound could be obtained to confirm the mild to moderate stenosis in the carotid artery system, more in the left than the right.Right Elbow MRI Sample Report    MRI Medical Transcription Sample Reports