General Surgery Medical Transcription Operative Sample Report

PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:Esophageal achalasia.
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:Esophageal achalasia.
OPERATIONS PERFORMED: 
1. LaparoscopicHeller cardiomyotomy. 
2. LaparoscopicToupet fundoplication. 
3. Intraoperativeesophagogastroduodenoscopy.
SURGEON: John Doe, MD
ANESTHESIA: Generalendotracheal. 
ESTIMATED BLOOD LOSS: 50 mL. 
COMPLICATIONS: None. 
DESCRIPTION OF OPERATION: The patient was transported to the operatingroom and placed supine on the operating table. Following induction ofsatisfactory general endotracheal anesthesia, the patient was placed in adorsal lithotomy position using Allen stirrups with appropriate padding of allpressure points. The abdomen was then prepped and draped in the usual fashionusing Betadine solution and sterile towels and sheets. A skin incision was madeapproximately 8 cm inferior to the xiphoid process, superior to the umbilicusand to the left of the midline. The dissection was carried down to the level ofthe anterior fascia and the abdominal cavity entered under direct vision usingan Optiview trocar. Carbon dioxide gas was instilled and a satisfactorypneumoperitoneum was achieved without evidence of respiratory compromise. The30 degree laparoscope with video camera was threaded through this trocar siteand the upper abdomen explored.
Examination of the right upper quadrant revealed a normal-appearinggallbladder and liver without nodularity over the surface. The anterior serosalsurface of the stomach was unremarkable and there was no evidence ofsplenomegaly. Having completed the exploration, a 10 mm trocar was placed alongthe left costal margin at the midclavicular line and a 5 mm trocar placed onthe left costal margin at the anterior axillary line. Two additional 5 mmtrocars were placed in the subxiphoid position as well as in the right upper quadrantlateral to the rectus musculature. The 5 mm liver retractor was introducedthrough the right upper quadrant trocar site and used to elevate the left lobeof the liver. This allowed for complete exposure of the esophageal hiatus.There was no evidence of a sliding axial hiatal hernia and there was a moderateamount of inflammation surrounding the distal esophagus from the patient'sprior dilatation.
The gastrohepatic ligament was initially opened over thecaudate lobe of the liver using the Harmonic shears. The hepatic branch of thevagus nerve was identified and preserved. The peritoneal incisions wereextended over the left and right crus and the mediastinum entered. Theesophagus was then circumferentially mobilized and the anterior and posterior vagalnerve trunks identified. The posterior nerve trunk was left in place along theposterior wall of the esophagus and the distal aspect of the anterior trunkcompletely mobilized. The nerve trunk was encircled with a vessel loop, securedin place with an 0 PDS Endoloop. The posterior aspect of the gastroesophagealjunction was fully mobilized as well and a pediatric Penrose drain passedaround the esophagus at this level. This was secured in place with an 0 PDS Endoloop.The lesser sac was then entered along the greater curvature of the stomachinferior to the inferior pole of the spleen. The short gastric vessels weredivided with the Harmonic shears to the level of the left crus and care wastaken to ensure that the entire posterior aspect of the upper fundus of thestomach was completely mobilized.
Next, attention was turned to performing the cardiomyotomy.A site was selected along the anterior wall of the cardia of the stomach, atleast 3 cm inferior to the gastroesophageal junction. The serosa and muscularwall of the stomach were then divided using Bovie electrocautery and Harmonicshears, exposing the mucosa of the stomach. Care was taken to ensure that themucosa was not violated and that all the circular muscle fibers of His weredivided. The myotomy was then extended over the anterior wall of the esophagus,carefully dividing the circular and longitudinal muscle fibers. Using theHarmonic shears, the myotomy was extended at least 8 to 10 cm proximally to thedilated area of esophagus where the muscular wall was no longer thickened.Again, care was taken to ensure that the esophageal mucosa was carefullypreserved and the muscular wall of the esophagus was widely separated.
Intraoperative esophagogastroduodenoscopy was then performedand confirmed an adequate myotomy extending down onto the wall of the stomachwithout evidence of injury of the esophageal mucosa. The stomach and esophaguswere desufflated and the scope removed. The vessel loop was removed from theanterior vagus nerve and attention turned to reapproximation of the crusposteriorly. This was accomplished using felt pledgets and a single horizontalmattress suture of 0 Ethibond. Care was taken to ensure that there was nonarrowing of the esophageal hiatus or anterior angulation of the esophagus.Next, the posterior aspect of the upper fundus of the stomach was passedposteriorly to the esophagus. The esophagus appeared to lie comfortably withinthe bed of the fundus and there was no evidence of tension. The posterioraspect of the fundus was then secured to the diaphragm using 2-0 Ethibondsutures. The Toupet fundoplication was completed using 2-0 Ethibond sutures aswell. The superior sutures were placed at the 10 o'clock and 2 o'clockpositions between the muscular wall of the esophagus, the fundus of thestomach, and the diaphragm. Two additional sutures were placed on either sidebetween the muscular wall of the esophagus and the fundus of the stomach.
At the completion of the fundoplication, it measuredapproximately 2.5 cm in length and there was no evidence of tension. There waswide distraction of the myotomy exposing the esophageal mucosa and the area ofdissection was thoroughly irrigated with Kantrex solution. After assuringsatisfactory hemostasis, any remaining fluid was evacuated and the suctionirrigator used to remove as much carbon dioxide gas as possible. The trocarswere removed and the incisions irrigated with Kantrex solution. The fascialopening at the 10 mm trocar sites were closed with 0 Vicryl sutures and 0.5%Marcaine instilled into the incisions. The skin was closed with 4-0 Vicrylsubcuticular suture and benzoin and Steri-Strips, as well as a Tegadermdressing placed across the incisions. The patient was then awakened andtransported back to the recovery room in satisfactory condition with sponge andneedle counts reported as correct at the end of the procedure.
MedicalTranscription Word Seeker - Google Custom Search for MTs - Searches justMedical WebsitesMedical Transcription Samples