Suboccipital and Frontal Craniotomy Transcription Sample Report

DATE OF OPERATION: MM/DD/YYYY
PREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Right frontal tumor.
POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS: Right frontal tumor.
OPERATION PERFORMED: Right frontal craniotomy for resection of right frontal tumor with Stealth image guidance and stereotactic preoperative planning.
SURGEON: John Doe, MD
ANESTHESIA: General endotracheal.
DESCRIPTION OF OPERATION: The patient was brought to the operating room, and after induction of anesthesia and administration of antibiotics, he was placed in the Mayfield headholder with his head turned to the left side. Prior to coming to the operating room, a stereotactic protocol MRI was done and was downloaded into the intraoperative Stealth system. The patient’s head was registered on the Stealth station. Next, a curvilinear incision was marked out and the skin was prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion. The previously marked incision was infiltrated with local anesthetic. A #10 blade was then used to incise the skin. Raney clips were placed on the skin edges. It was flapped over a rolled sponge and held in place with fishhooks. Four bur holes were created. Next, the dura was opened and flattened medially. There were very many draining veins medially and one venous lake began bleeding. This was stemmed with Gelfoam and pressure. Next, the tumor was identified and a corticectomy was made. The tumor was found to be fleshy colored. This was resected with CUSA ultrasonic aspirator. Several pieces were taken and sent to pathology for histologic examination. The frozen section report came back as high-grade glioma, most likely glioblastoma multiforme. Next, thorough evacuation of all visible tumor was made. Once the margins of the tumor had been identified and resected, the corticectomy and tumor bed were packed with cotton balls. Once adequate hemostasis had been achieved, tumor bed was lined with Gelfoam and FloSeal. The dura was flapped loosely back into place. Several tenting sutures were placed around the outside of the skull flap. Next, some DuraGen was placed over the open dura. The bone flap was replaced and held in place for bur hole covers. The skin was closed with inversion interrupted 2-0 Vicryl sutures and skin staples. All sponge, needle and instrument counts were correct. Estimated blood loss was 350 mL. The patient was extubated and transferred to the PACU in stable condition.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DATE OF OPERATION: MM/DD/YYYYPREOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:Suboccipital mass with secondary hydrocephalus.POSTOPERATIVE DIAGNOSIS:Suboccipital mass with secondary hydrocephalus.OPERATION PERFORMED:1. Suboccipitalcraniotomy and gross total resection of tumor with microscopic guidance.2. Right frontalexternal ventricular drain placement.SURGEON: John Doe, MDANESTHESIA: Generalendotracheal.DESCRIPTION OF OPERATION:The patient was brought to the operative suite and underwent generalendotracheal anesthesia. He was thenprepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion. A 1 to 2 cm incision was made in the rightmid pupillary line just anterior to the coronal suture. Blunt and sharp dissection was performed downto the skull. A small twist-drill holewas created and the dura was sharply incised.The external ventricular drain was then easily passed into the lateralventricle with spontaneous flow of minimally blood-tinged moderate pressure CSF. Greater than 25 mL of CSF was aspirated andsent for cytology prior to any further intervention. The EVD was appropriately sewn in place andthe exit site closed using 4-0 Vicryl Rapide .The patient was then carefully placed in the Mayfield pins andpositioned prone on the surgical table. Thepatient was then prepped and draped in the usual sterile fashion and a 4 to 5 cmincision was made traveling down to C1.Blunt and sharp dissection was performed down through the skull, where acerebellar retractor was placed in the incision to reflect the paraspinalmusculature laterally. A Midas Rex wasused to create a trough over the torcular and a curved Penfield #4 was used tofree the dura. Midas Rex with B1 bit andfootplate was then used to turn the craniotomy flap down to the foramenmagnum. The dura itself was grosslynormal in appearance. Fourcircumferential holes, both on the skull and on the bone flap were created toallow reattachment of the bone flap at the completion of the operation. The dura was incised using a 15 blade andGeralds with teeth. A Budde haloretractor was placed in the incision.The Budde halo was carefully attached to the Mayfield headholder and 1/2inch blades were used to reflect the cerebellar hemispheres laterally. A midline cerebellar vermis dissectionproceeded. Portions of the tumor comingout of the obex were identified and sampled.Frozen pathology was consistent with medulloblastoma. The microscope was brought in to allowcareful circumferential dissection of the lesion. The tumor itself was vascular, beefy andbloody. It appeared to arise from theregion of the right foramen of Luschka and was briskly adherent to the stria onthe floor of the fourth ventricle just medial to the right foramen ofLuschka. Careful circumferentialdissection was continued up to the aqueduct of Sylvius where spontaneous flowof CSF was appreciated. Looking into theaqueduct, the tip of the external ventricular drain was identified in the thirdventricle. Careful circumferentialdissection was continued such that it was felt that a gross total resection wasobtained. After resection, there wasminimal bleeding. Hemostasis wasachieved using bipolar electrocautery and the dura was closed in a simplerunning fashion using 4-0 Vicryl.Durepair was used to patch the dura in a watertight fashion. Closure was watertight to a Valsalva to35. The bone flap was then reaffixedusing the circumferential holes previously made and 2-0 Vicryl suture. The incision was copiously irrigated withantibiotic irrigation, closed in anatomic layers using 2-0 and 3-0 Vicryl. Final layer of skin was closed using 4-0Vicryl Rapide. The patient tolerated theprocedure well and was sent to the PACU intubated postoperatively.Suboccipital Craniotomy and Resection Sample ReportMT Word HelpMedical Transcription SamplesMedical Transcription Word Seeker - Google Custom Search for MTs - Searches just Medical Websites